# Mimimal OpenD6 System Reference Document

[Mimimal OpenD6]{.title-ref} is a [System Reference
Document](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/System_Reference_Document) based
on [Mini Six]{.title-ref}, from [AntiPaladin
Games](http://www.antipaladingames.com/), used in accordance with the
[Mini Six Standard Trademark
License](http://www.antipaladingames.com/p/license.html) and the [Open
Game License](https://ogc.rpglibrary.org/images/7/73/OpenD6_OGL_v2.pdf)
used with [OpenD6](https://opend6.fandom.com/wiki/OpenD6).

## Definitions of Common Game Terms

[Mimimal OpenD6]{.title-ref} wasn\'t written to be read from the
standpoint of the novice gamer; someone who\'s never seen a roleplaying
game before. So, if you\'re lost the following definitions might prove
helpful.

**Adventure:** The story the player characters are taking part in.
Rescue the princess, slay the dragon, blow up the space station, break
up the car theft ring. It is like having one episode of a television
show or a single movie. It might be finished in a single night or take
several sessions to complete.

**Campaign:** Linked adventures that tell a larger story. For instance
it could resemble a series of novels telling an epic quest or a
television series where each adventure is episodic and the main common
factor are the recurring characters.

**Game Master (GM):** The person in charge. They are sometimes called
narrators. They run the adventure and act as impartial judge helping to
keep the game moving.

**Non-Player Character (NPC):** All of the characters controlled by the
Game Master. They are the heroes\' allies, enemies, extras in the
background, and everyone in between. If it\'s a character not controlled
by a player, it\'s an NPC. These characters do not follow normal
creation guidelines. They are built on the needs of the story and for
the purpose the GM has in mind for them.

**Player Character (PC):** The protagonists, be they hero or antihero.
These are the characters controlled by the players.

**Round (rd or /r):** Approximately ten seconds of time in the game
world. How to track the speed of simple actions and combat.

**Scene:** An intense fight, a thrilling car chase, a meeting with
NPC\'s, each extended moment of interaction with each other or others is
a scene. Just like in a play or a story, when the action winds down
it\'s the end of a scene.

**Session:** A single gathering of gamers. When you are done for the
night and everyone is going home, it is the end of the session. Please
respect your host by cleaning your area before you leave; it\'s just the
nice thing to do.

**Target Number (TN):** This is the number you need to roll or higher to
succeed at whatever you are attempting. General challenges are broken
down into six levels of difficulty (see [General (non-combat)
Challenges](#general-non-combat-challenges)). Combat target numbers are
based on the target\'s defensive scores like block, dodge, etc.
Sometimes you will attempt to affect another character through certain
skills, such as *Seduce* or *Persuasion*, which can be resisted by the
target\'s skill. In this case you must beat the defender\'s roll to
succeed. The TN of a given action might be modified by the GM depending
on circumstances.

## About this Book

[Minimal OpenD6]{.title-ref} is a member of the
[OpenD6](https://opend6.fandom.com/wiki/OpenD6) family of games. It\'s
cinematic and flexible like its parent, but its goal is to be lighter
and faster, keeping the heart of the system\'s mechanics but streamling
the rules.

[How to Make a Character](#how-to-make-a-character) details character
creation while [The Game Mechanics](#the-game-mechanics) and
[Combat](#combat) provide all the needed mechanics to play a complete
game. Beyond these short sections are additional rules and options to
expand your game.

[Vehicles](#vehicles-1) and [The Simple Magic
System](#the-simple-magic-system) are rules that will only come up in
some games. [Sample Characters by Genre](#sample-characters-by-genre)
provide GMs with a ready list of NPCs and monsters to populate the game.
[Optional Rules](#optional-rules) provides rule variants to help change
up the game to better fit the style of the campaign desired.

In [Making the Game Your Own](#making-the-game-your-own) the GM will
find a little advice on creating the campaign and adapting other OpenD6
materials to their [Minimal OpenD6]{.title-ref} games. In [Sample
Settings](#sample-settings) you will find several sample settings that
are nearly ready to go as is.

What you won\'t find in ths book are a lot of detailed examples,
exhaustive rules to cover every possible scenario, or a large list of
modifiers. Instead, we are trusting GMs, with the help of their players,
to apply common sense to make the game fun for everyone. Don\'t slow the
game down by wasting time digging for rules that aren\'t there. And most
importantly, when the rules conflict with fun, fun wins.

## Dice Basics

This game uses regular six sided dice. The number before the "D" is how
many to roll, and any number after a + is how much to add to the roll.
For instance 2D+2 means roll two dice and add two to the resulting
total.

One die rolled is always the Wild Die. Use a different color die to
represent this or roll the dice one at a time making the last die rolled
the wild die. If the wild die results in a six, then roll again adding
the six and the new result together. If a six comes up on the reroll,
then you add six and reroll again! Keep doing it until the wild die
lands on something other than a 6.

## How to Make a Character

1.  Distribute 12 dice between the four attributes. No attribute may
    have less than one nor more than four dice assigned to it.
2.  Distribute 7 dice to skills and perks. No skill may have more than
    two dice assigned to it at character creation.
3.  Select Complications.
4.  Choose gear.

**Splitting Dice:** skill and attribute dice may be split into "pips."
Each die is equal to three pips. An attribute must always have at least
1D. An attribute may have dice only (no bonus pips), +1 or +2. Going to
"+3" advances the die code to the next largest die. Example progression
is 1D, 1D+1, 1D+2, 2D, 2D+1, etc.

### Attributes

Each character has four attributes which measure basic physical and
mental abilities that are common to every creature. Characters
distribute 12D among the four attributes. These are normally rated on a
scale of 1D to 4D, although perks may change these limits. When putting
dice into each attribute you can put whole dice in each or use a mixture
of whole dice and pips.

-   **Might** represents physical strength, toughness, and amount of
    damage dealt when striking unarmed.
-   **Agility** represents aim and coordination.
-   **Wit** represents mental creativity and intelligence.
-   **Charm** represents charisma, resolve, and leadership.

### Skills

Characters are further defined by skills. Players may allocate up 7D on
skills to best represent the unique talents of their character. Unspent
skill dice can be used to purchase Perks.

Skills are areas of expertise that represent focus and training. When
putting dice into each skill you can put whole dice in each or use a
mixture of whole dice and pips. No more than 2D may be spent in each
skill during character creation. Each skill defaults to the level of the
related attribute. For example, a character who has a Might of 3D has 3D
in all skills under Might before allocating any dice. If two dice are
added to *Brawling* it is recorded as 5D.

The following is an incomplete skill list designed to serve as an
inspiration for what may be used in a game. Each game should have a
tailored list of appropriate skills which might include new skills or
modify examples given. For example a typical sword and sorcery game
might use an expanded list of melee skills to further define its
warriors while a science fiction game may lump them all into a unified
skill named "Melee Combat."

```{=ms}
.nr old_PS \n[PS]
.nr PS 8p
.nr old_VS \n[VS]
.nr VS 9.5p
.ds old_FAM \*[FAM]
.\" ds FAM AlegreyaSans
```
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
                  **Might     **Agility    **Wit        **Charm
                  Skills**    Skills**     Skills**     Skills**
  --------------- ----------- ------------ ------------ ------------
  **All Genres**  Brawling†   Athletics    Athletics    Command

                  Knife†      Dodge†       Language     Courage

                  Lift        Pickpocket   Medicine     Diplomacy

                  Mace†       Stealth      Pick Locks   Persuasion

                  Stamina     Throwing†    Search       Seduce

                                           Tracking     

  **Modern**                  BFG†         Computer     Streetwise

  **or Sci-fi**               Drive        Navigation   

                              Pilot        Repair       

                              Pistol†      Science      

                              Rifle†                    

  **Fantasy**     Axe†        Bow†         Magic        Ride

                  Pole Arm†   Crossbow†                 

                  Smithing                              

                  Sword†                                
  ------------------------------------------------------------------

† = *Combat skills are not allowed specializations*

```{=ms}
.nr PS \n[old_PS]u
.nr VS \n[old_VS]u
.\" ds FAM \*[old_FAM]
```
### Skill Specializations

Specializations are focused aspects of a skill. For example, *Drive*
specializations might include *Car* and *Motorcycle*. One skill die can
be spent to gain three specialty dice. Combat skills don\'t have
specializations. Example: A character with an Agility of 3D focuses on
the *Running* Speciality of *Athletics*. He spends one skill die in it,
but records it as Running 6D on his character sheet. He has an
*Athletics* of only 3D. This is the only time the 2D skill limit can be
exceeded during character creation.

### Perks

During character creation, unspent skill dice may be spent to acquire
Perks. The following perks are meant to serve as examples and
inspiration. The cost listed next to each is in whole skill dice.

#### Racial Perks

**Dwarf (1):** You\'re long lived, you can see in the dark, you receive
+2 to smithing or any other craft skill, Your maximum Might is 5D but
your maximum Agility is 3D.

**Elf (2):** You\'re long lived, you can see in the dark, you receive a
+1 on all ranged attacks, Your maximum Agility is 5D but your maximum
Might is only 3D.

**Reptoid (2):** You\'re green and scaly, this gives a +1 Armor Value.
You also have claw-tipped fingers which grant you +1 damage on unarmed
attacks. You might also be asexual. Sorry.

**Robot (4):** You don\'t eat, breathe, or sleep. You can have your
memory wiped. You don\'t heal but you can be repaired. As long as your
memory core survives you may be rebuilt if destroyed.

#### General Perks

**Attractive (1):** Others find the character pleasing to look at. This
can help reduce suspicions or distract others depending on the given
situation. Once per session the character can double one roll for any
action related to their appearance. Examples include seduction, a subtle
bluff or simply distracting guards.

**Daredevil (2):** Once per session you may throw caution to the wind
taking extremely reckless action that may result in your own death. Your
dodge, block, and parry are reduced by half however all Might rolls are
doubled when resisting damage for one round.

**Destiny (2):** Characters with Destiny feel they are fated to some
grand purpose. Once per game session a character may declare a failed
roll is not part of their Destiny and immediately reroll to get a
different result.

**Favors (1):** People owe you. Once per session you can call in one of
those debts. This can take the form of information, a temporary use of
equipment (borrowing a truck, plow, pump action shotgun, etc.), a place
to hide someone or something for a brief time, or any similar event.

**Lucky (2):** Once per session you can declare you are feeling lucky.
Double the result of your next roll.

**Perceptive (2):** The GM may reveal small clues to you that others
would miss. Once per session a character may announce they are studying
an object or situation and the GM may reveal something that would be
impossible for a normal character to determine. If nothing is revealed
this perk may be used again. "Elementary, my dear Watson."

**Recall (1):** Any time the character chooses to recall anything he has
experienced, the GM must tell him the truth in as much detail as the
character would have been aware.

**Sidekick (3):** You have a boon companion willing to join in your
adventures. This character only gets 10D to spend on attributes and 4D
to spend on starting skills. They normally only receive 1 to 3 CP per
session, but never as many as their fearless leader.

#### Esoteric Perks

**Energy Blast (5):** You can throw bolts of pure energy. These do 4D
damage and use your *Throwing* skill.

**ESP (3):** You can read minds. Targets resist using their Charm vs.
your Wits.

**Flying (4):** You can fly (at twice your move).

**Regeneration (3):** You heal 1 wound level/hour.

**Sorcerer (3):** You\'re magically sensitive. Magic spells actually
work for you. See [The Simple Magic System](#the-simple-magic-system).

**Telekinesis (3):** You can move stuff with your mind. Make a Wits roll
and treat it like the *Lift* skill. People resist using their Might.

**X-Ray Vision (3):** you can see through 1 foot of material.

## Complications

During character creation only, players may select up to two
complications. These grant no additional skill dice during character
creation; however, if one comes up in play the character earns one CP.
Characters may not earn more than one CP per complication per session
regardless of how often it comes up.

**Age:** You\'re either really old or really young. In addition to all
the social issues caused by your age, the GM might choose to impose a
penalty to an action based on your character\'s age. Grandpa throws a
hip, a weird dude offers you candy on the street, and it\'s hard for
either of you to seduce the supermodel at the bar. Whenever your age
causes you great difficulty receive one CP.

**Crazy:** You have issues that are guaranteed to put the therapists\'
kids through college. Could be you\'re just really paranoid, or maybe
just a touch too OCD. That fear of most everything could also be a
problem. Then again maybe you really are Napoleon and everyone else is
wrong, good luck convincing anyone else since you\'re a lunatic. Hastur,
Hastur, Hastur! Take your pills and earn one CP any time your psychosis
really gets in the way.

**Enemies:** Someone doesn\'t like you at all. And they are a credible
threat. Maybe they have more friends than you, maybe they\'re just
bigger and meaner; either way you have your own personal bully. You earn
the bonus CP when they complicate your life.

**Gremlins:** You have a special touch. Specifically the kind that
breaks machines. You\'re no good with engines, electronics, magical
gizmos, or any other trinket. If it\'s a device, you can\'t trust it.
Earn one CP whenever the GM takes his one free shot on you this way.

**Personal Code:** You live by a creed and you will not cross that line.
Maybe you won\'t fight an unarmed opponent and always make sure they
know its coming or maybe you never tell a lie. No matter how you define
it, your code has to mean something. Some caped crusaders won\'t kill,
paladins won\'t resort to deception, and sometimes there is even honor
among thieves. Earn one CP whenever your code complicates you or
friends\' success.

**Skeletons in the Closet:** You\'ve been a naughty boy. Maybe you\'re a
closet smoker. Maybe those hookers buried themselves. Maybe that enemy
uniform in the closet really isn\'t yours. Maybe the bank really meant
to let you take all that money out that day. Whatever, the universe
doesn\'t judge. You earn the bonus CP whenever your past comes back to
haunt you.

**Unlucky in Love:** Things just don\'t work out for some guys. Your
love interest is always dying, being kidnapped, betraying you, or even
worse dumping you. You earn bonus CP when your love life falls apart in
a meaningful way.

**Unlucky in Money:** You have a hard time holding onto money. You earn
the bonus CP when you lose a significant amount of cash through your own
foolishness or bad luck and have nothing to show for it.

## Gear

Some games may assume the character has the trappings of a middle class
lifestyle, while others may take place in a world of fantasy where only
those items in your pack mean the difference between life and death.

Characters might start with one piece of related gear for each skill
they allocated dice to during character creation. For example a pistol
for the *Pistol* skill, a medic bag for *Medicine*, etc. For anything
else, beg the GM.

```{=ms}
.2C
```
  ----------------------------
  **Weapon**      **Damage**
  --------------- ------------
  Axe             +3D

  Club            +1D+1

  Hatchet         +1D+1

  Halberd         +3D

  Knife           +1D

  Mace            +1D+1

  Rapier          +2D

  Staff           +1D+2

  Spear           +2D

  Sword           +2D+2

  Sword, 2h       +3D+1

  Warhammer       +3D

  Bow             +2D+2

  Crossbow        4D+1
  ----------------------------

  : **Low Tech Weapons**

  ---------------------------
  **Armor**       **Value**
  --------------- -----------
  Leather         +2

  Chainmail       +6

  Platemail       +9

  Shield          +4
  ---------------------------

  : **Low Tech Armor**

  ----------------------------
  **Weapon**      **Damage**
  --------------- ------------
  Light Pistol    3D+2

  Heavy Pistol    4D

  Rifle           5D

  Shotgun         4D+2

  BFG             6D
  ----------------------------

  : **Modern Tech Weapons**

  ----------------------------
  **Weapon**      **Damage**
  --------------- ------------
  Plasma Pistol   5D

  Plasma Rifle    6D

  Plasma BFG      7D

  Plasma Sword    +4D
  ----------------------------

  : **Sci-Fi Tech Weapons**

```{=ms}
```
```{=ms}
.KS
```
  ------------------------------
  **Weapon**      **(S/M/L)**†
  --------------- --------------
  Bow             30/100/300

  Crossbow        50/150/400

  All Pistols     30/100/350

  All Rifles      100/350/500

  Shotguns        50/150/400

  BFG             100/400/700

  Grenades        10/20/30
  ------------------------------

  : **Missile Weapon Ranges**

† Ranges in feet.

```{=ms}
.KE
.1C
```
## The Game Mechanics

### General (non-combat) Challenges

Characters roll the appropriate attribute plus skill against a set
target number based on the task attempted.

  **Difficulty**   **Target Number**
  ---------------- -------------------
  Very Easy        2--5
  Easy             6--10
  Moderate         11--15
  Difficult        16--20
  Very Difficult   21--30
  Heroic           31+

**Very Easy:** Nearly everyone can do it. These checks should only be
made if a success is critical to the scenario at hand.

**Easy:** Characters will seldom have trouble with these tasks, but an
untrained individual may find them challenging.

**Moderate:** Average characters have a reasonable chance of failing at
this level. Consistent success often requires training in the skill or a
high level of natural ability.

**Difficult:** Tasks at this level are truly challenging. To succeed a
character needs to be well skilled or very lucky.

**Very Difficult:** Challenges of this level fall into the domain of
masters in the skill being used; few others will succeed at them.

**Heroic:** These challenges are almost impossible. Only the very lucky
or true masters can consistently succeed at them.

#### Order of Actions in a Round

*(a round is considered to be approximately 10 seconds)*

1.  Declare all actions planned for the round.
2.  Determine order of Initiative by rolling Agility for each character.
    Highest goes first.
3.  Characters make rolls for all actions they are attempting. The
    target may get an opportunity to resist or avoid the action.

#### Multiple Actions

Characters may attempt to do more than one thing on a turn by
withholding one die from every action they attempt for each action
beyond the first. For instance, if a character tries to shoot twice, he
will subtract one die from each attempt.

### Scaling

Not all objects are on the same scale. Humans and horses may be close
enough to be equals, but humans and dragons aren\'t. When dealing damage
to a smaller scaled target or resisting damage inflicted by it, the
larger adds the difference in modifiers to their die rolls or static
defenses. Smaller scaled targets attempting to dodge attacks from or
actually attempting to attack a larger scaled opponent add the
difference to their dodge and attack rolls.

```{=ms}
.nr old_PS \n[PS]
.nr PS 8p
.nr old_VS \n[VS]
.nr VS 9.5p
```
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  *Scale*                                   *Modifier*
  ----------------------------------------- -----------------------------
  Character, Animals                        None

  Air Cycle, Car, Little Dragon, Wagon      +2D/+6 to Dodge & Soak

  Big Dragon, Galley, Mecha, Tank           +4D/+12 to Dodge & Soak

  Fighter, Light Transport, Heavy Mecha     +6D/+18 to Dodge & Soak

  Capital Ship, Elder God, Space Station    +12D/+36 to Dodge & Soak

  Mega Space Station, Planets               +24D/+72 to Dodge & Soak
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------

```{=ms}
.nr PS \n[old_PS]u
.nr VS \n[old_VS]u
```
### Movement

A character may move up to 15 feet as a free action or move 30 feet at
the cost of one action. If a character wishes to run faster he rolls his
*Athletics* skill and adds it to his movement. If the only action taken
in a round is running, his total move is doubled.

### Experience

At the end of each session the GM awards each character a number of
character points. The number of points given per session typically
varies from 3 to 7 depending on drama, danger, success, and fun!

#### Spending Character Points (CP)

Any skill may be increased one pip by spending a number of CPs equal to
its current number of dice. No skill may be increased more than one pip
per session. Skill specializations cost only half as much to raise,
rounding up.

Character points are also used to improve attributes. This costs 10
times the number of dice a character has in the attribute to raise it
one pip. All skills under this attribute also improve by one pip. For
example, if a character had a Wit of 3D+1 and wanted to improve it to
3D+2 it would cost 30 CP.

### Hero Points

Characters start with 1 hero point and may spend it before any roll.
Hero Points provide a variety of options, but once spent the point is
lost:

-   Gaining a +6 to any single roll (up to 3 points may be used at one
    time when using this effect).
-   Just a flesh wound. Once per combat a hero point can be used to
    reduce the severity of a character\'s wounds one level.
-   Make a small change to their location (locating an unlocked window,
    finding a can of WD40 and a roll of duct tape, etc).
-   "Buy" a clue. Sometimes players are at a lost or think they might
    have missed something. This gives them the option to find that
    detail that they would have otherwise missed.

Hero Points are earned through superior play and given as an incentive
by the GM to help encourage the style of action desired in a game. If
playing a gritty western and the character makes a clever quip using the
"in-game" jargon that makes everyone laugh without disrupting play that
may be worth a Hero Point. Unless completely against the nature of the
game played, extremely clever ideas and grand heroic deeds should always
be rewarded.

### Healing

**Natural Healing:** If a wounded character rests he is allowed a Might
check and if successful heals a wound level. The frequency of the check
depends on the severity of the character\'s wounds.

**Assisted Healing:** Characters with the *Medicine* skill can attempt
to help others heal more quickly. A skill check may be made once per day
for each patient treated. On a successful roll, the patient heals one
wound level.

```{=ms}
.nr old_PS \n[PS]
.nr PS 8p
.nr old_VS \n[VS]
.nr VS 9.5p
.KS
```
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  *Wound Level*      *Frequency (N.    *Might        *Assisted Healing
                     Healing)*         Difficulty*   Difficulty*
  ------------------ ----------------- ------------- ---------------------
  Stunned            1 minute          automatic     Easy

  Wounded            3 days            6             Moderate

  Severely Wounded   3 days            6             Moderate

  Incapacitated      2 weeks           8             Difficult

  Mortally Wounded   5 weeks           9             Very Difficult
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

```{=ms}
.KE
.nr PS \n[old_PS]u
.nr VS \n[old_VS]u
```
## Combat

### Why two rules?

The Fast Static Combat is the preferred method of combat resolution,
while players familiar with OpenD6 may be more comfortable with
Traditional OpenD6 Combat.

Fast Static Combat reduces the number of die rolls without significantly
altering the results compared to Traditional OpenD6 Combat.

Minimal OpenD6 supports both flavors so you can easily use whichever
method you prefer.

### Fast Static Combat

#### Attacking a Target

The Target Number, or TN, is the number needed to successfully hit the
target. The base target number on an attack is based on the target\'s
static defense score.

**Range:** Add the range modifier to the Dodge score in all cases (Point
Blank/Hand-to-Hand −5, Medium +5, Long +10). See the sample gear list
for ranges.

**Cover:** If the target is behind at least 50% cover, add +5 to the
Target Number. Add +10 for 75% cover. It\'s impossible to hit a target
behind 100% cover. Darkness can also be considered as cover at the GM\'s
whim.

#### Static Defenses

In the simplified combat system characters precalculate their Dodge,
Block, Parry, and Soak prior to the game. This static number becomes the
attacker\'s TN modified as noted above. To calculate each simply
multiply the number of dice a character has in the relevant skill by 3
and add any pips to the total. Then note it down on the character sheet.
For example, Sir Baelen has a *Sword* skill of 5D+1. His static Parry
score would become 16 ((5 x 3)+1).

**Block** = (*Brawling* skill dice x 3) + pips.

**Dodge** = (*Dodge* skill dice x 3) + pips.

**Parry** = (Weapon skill dice x 3) + pips.

**Soak** = (Might attribute dice x 3) + pips plus armor value + any
magical, super-tech, or other AV bonus.

**Full Dodge:** If the character does nothing except dodge until his
next turn they will add 10 to their Dodge score, and apply range and
cover as usual. This result is useful against any number of attacks.

#### Resisting Damage

When a target has been hit, the attacker rolls damage and the target\'s
Soak score is subtracted from the damage. The player or GM then checks
the "Wound Level" chart below to see how badly the target was wounded.

### Traditional OpenD6 Combat

#### Attacking A Target

The Target Number, or TN is the number needed to successfully hit the
target. The base target number on an attack is 10. This is modified by
range, by cover, by block, by parry, or by dodging (see below).

**Range:** The ranged attack modifier applies to the base TN or
defender\'s *Dodge* roll (Point Blank/Hand-to-Hand −5, Medium +5, Long
+10). See the sample gear list for ranges.

**Cover:** If the target is behind at least 50% cover, add +5 to the TN.
Add +10 for 75% cover. It\'s impossible to hit a target behind 100%
cover. Darkness can also be considered as cover at the GM\'s whim.

#### Defensive Options

The defender may optionally choose to Dodge, Block, or Parry when
attacked, however if the defense was not stated when the character first
declared their actions for the turn they suffer an additional −1D
penalty until their next turn.

**Block/Parry:** When attacked by a brawling or melee weapon, the
defender may choose to Block or Parry, both incur a reflex penalty (see
below). The defender rolls his *Brawling* skill, or weapon skill if
armed, and this becomes the TN the attacker must score to hit the
character. The result of this roll is used even if it is less than what
the TN would have been had the defender not blocked! If a weapon parries
a brawling attack the attacker takes the damage of the weapon!

**Reflexive Dodge:** The character tries to get out of the way of the
attack. Roll the defender\'s *Dodge* skill and use that instead of any
other TN. (Range and Cover still apply.) The defender suffers a penalty
of −1D to all actions until their next turn.

**Full Dodge:** The character does nothing except dodge until his next
turn. Roll *Dodge*, add 10, and apply range and cover as usual. This
result is useful against any number of attacks.

#### Resisting Damage

When a target has been hit, the attacker rolls damage while the target
rolls their Might adding any armor value bonuses. The total of the
target\'s Might roll is subtracted from the attacker\'s damage total.
The player or GM then checks the Wound Level chart to see how badly the
target was wounded.

## Wounds

### Wound Level Chart

  --------------------------------------------------------
  **Wound Level**        **Dmg Total\* ≥ Res Total by:**
  ---------------------- ---------------------------------
  Unharmed               0 or less

  Stunned                1--3

  Wounded                4--8

  Severely Wounded\*\*   4--8

  Incapacitated          9--12

  Mortally Wounded       13--15

  Dead                   16+
  --------------------------------------------------------

**\* Note:** Any additional damage less than or equal to the
character\'s current level moves him up by one level.

**\*\* Note:** A character is Severely Wounded if the result is between
4 and 8 and he already has the Wounded level.

### Wound Level Effects

**Stunned:** −1D for all remaining actions this round and next round.

**Wounded:** −1D to all actions until healed.

**Severely Wounded:** −2D on all actions until healed.

**Incapacitated:** As a free action before losing consciousness, the
character may try to stay up with a Moderate (15) *Stamina* roll. If
successful, he may continue to act, but with a −3D penalty. If he fails,
he is knocked out for 10D minutes.

**Mortally Wounded:** The character is near death and knocked
unconscious with no chance to keep up. Roll the character\'s Might each
round, the character finally dies if the roll is less than the number of
minutes he\'s been at this level.

**Dead:** The character has perished.

## Vehicles

All vehicles from ancient chariots to futuristic starships are defined
by a common set of statistics. The following stats help the GM and
players quickly resolve all actions related to vehicles.

**Skill:** What skill is used to drive/pilot it.

**Scale:** The size of the vehicle.

**Body:** Used to resist damage.

**Maneuverability (MNV):** How easy it is to handle. This gives a bonus
on *Drive* and *Pilot* skill rolls.

**Move:** How fast it can travel.

**Crew:** The number needed to successfully operate the vehicle.

**Passengers (Psg):** Non-crew capacity.

**Weapons:** Any armaments mounted on the vehicle.

**Cargo:** How much stuff it can carry.

### Vehicle Combat

Some vehicles have weapons. Unless specified in their descriptions they
are considered to be the same scale as the vehicle. Attacks are resolved
in the same manner as character vs. character combat with the only
difference being the character uses their *Drive/Pilot* skill in place
of *Dodge* to avoid being hit. If the hit was successful the character
would roll the vehicle\'s Body to resist the damage and consult the
following chart to determine how severe the damage is:

```{=ms}
.nr old_PS \n[PS]
.nr PS 9p
.nr old_VS \n[VS]
.nr VS 11p
```
::: {.container .keep}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
  *Damage Rolled*               *Effect*
  ----------------------------- ------------------------------------
  Damage Roll ≥ Body Roll       Temporary Effect (one round)

  Damage Roll ≥ 2 × Body Roll   Permanent Effect (repair required)

  Damage Roll ≥ 3 × Body Roll   Permanent Effect (part destroyed)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
:::

```{=ms}
.nr PS \n[old_PS]u
.nr VS \n[old_VS]u
```
Once the severity of the damage is determined the GM may roll randomly
on the following chart or use common sense to determine which part is
damaged.

  ------------------------------------------
  *Roll 1D*   *Effect*
  ----------- ------------------------------
  1           Lose 1D from Maneuverability

  2--3        Random System Damaged

  4--5        Structural Damage
  ------------------------------------------

#### Effects of Damage

**Maneuverability:** Each time this is affected the vehicle loses 1D.
This can go negative becoming a penalty to the driver\'s skill roll.

**System Damaged:** Randomly select a vehicle\'s system and it either
becomes broken or loses 1D from its rating (if applicable). Examples
include communications/radio, sensors, shielding, sail, rigging, armor,
etc.

**Structural Damage:** The vehicle receives one wound level. Treat these
like character wound levels. Mortally wounded vehicles stop running and
Dead vehicles are considered destroyed.

#### Ramming

When vehicles are at short range, a pursuer may try to ram. To
successfully ram the pilot needs to roll higher than the target\'s
*Pilot* skill check. If successful both vehicles take damage equal to to
the body of attacking plus relative move dice.

#### Multiple Weapons on Vehicles

When vehicles have more than one weapon of a single type, they can be
fired as a single salvo. This requires a successful *Command* skill roll
with the difficulty based on the number of guns being combined. Each
doubling of the number of weapons combined increases the damage by one
pip.

### Chases

When attempting to overtake or outrun an opponent the GM determines what
range you are at (Short/Medium/Long). Each turn each vehicle makes a
*Drive/Pilot* check, with the vehicle\'s Move dice granting a bonus. The
higher roll either closes or increases the distance 1 range as desired.
If reduced below Short you catch up, if increased beyond Long you
escape.

### Repairing Vehicles

Characters may repair vehicles using their skills. The difficulty and
cost is determined on the following chart. The cost is based on the
price of a new vehicle.

```{=ms}
.KS
```
  *Dice Lost*   *Difficulty*   *Cost*   *Time Needed*
  ------------- -------------- -------- ---------------
  1D            Easy           10%      1 hour
  2D            Moderate       15%      4 hours
  3D+           Difficult      20%      1 day

```{=ms}
.KE
```
### Vehicle Movement

Move dice represent relative speed between vehicles of similar types.
Vehicles are divided into four broad categeries including Primitive
Craft/Muscle Powered, Motorized Ground and Water Craft, Aircraft, and
Spacecraft. If vehicles of different categories must compare speeds,
such as a fighter chasing a tank, the faster vehicle is granted bonus
move dice based on the difference in speed factors in the following
chart:

  -----------------------------------------------
  *Speed Factor*                     *Modifier*
  ---------------------------------- ------------
  Primitive Craft / Muscle Powered   0D

  Motorized Ground / Water Craft     2D

  Aircraft                           5D

  Spacecraft                         10D
  -----------------------------------------------

### Weapon Ranges in Space

Space is big and empty. Guns shoot great distances and ships are
extremely fast. The ranges given are abstract units that are defined by
the needs of the individual game.

```{=ms}
.bp
```
### Vehicle Costs

```{=ms}
.nr old_PS \n[PS]
.nr PS 9p
.nr old_VS \n[VS]
.nr VS 10p
.KS
```
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  **Cost**       **Description**
  -------------- --------------------------------------------------------
  \$             Trivial cost.

  \$\$           Affordable to most.

  \$\$\$         Affordable to the very wealthy, governments, and corps.

  \$\$\$\$       Only the richest individuals, most governments.

  \$\$\$\$\$     Only large governments and megacorps can purchase.

  \$\$\$\$\$\$   World governments and star empires only.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------

```{=ms}
.KE
.nr PS \n[old_PS]u
.nr VS \n[old_VS]u
```
```{=ms}
.sp -2v
```
### Sample Fantasy Vehicles

```{=ms}
.MC 2.1i 0.2i
.sp -1.1v
```
```{=context}
\startcolumns[n=2]
```
#### Air Ship

*A magic flying ship.*

| **Cost:** \$\$\$\$
| **Scale:** +4D
| **Skill:** Pilot
| **Body:** 2D
| **MNV:** 0D
| **Move:** 1D
| **Crew:** 4
| **Psg:** 12
| **Cargo:** 2 tons

#### Automaton

*A steam powered golem.*

| **Cost:** \$\$\$\$
| **Scale:** +2D
| **Skill:** Command
| **Body:** 5D
| **MNV:** 0D
| **Move:** 1D
| **Crew:** 1
| **Psg:** 0
| **Weapons:** Mace (3D), Range: melee.
| **Cargo:** None

#### Galleon

*A pirate ship yoho.*

| **Cost:** \$\$
| **Scale:** +4D
| **Skill:** Sailing
| **Body:** 4D
| **MNV:** 0D
| **Move:** 2D
| **Crew:** 70
| **Psg:** 30
| **Weapons:** 16 cannons (4D/ea), 8 cannons (2D+2/ea) Range: 10/30/50.
  May only fire 50% of guns at one target once every three turns.
| **Cargo:** 15 tons

#### Small Ship

*A sloop or pinnace.*

| **Cost:** \$\$
| **Scale:** +4D
| **Skill:** Sailing
| **Body:** 2D+2
| **MNV:** 1D
| **Move:** 2D+2
| **Crew:** 12
| **Psg:** 8
| **Weapons:** 6 cannons (2d+2/ea), Range: 10/30/50. May only fire 50%
  of guns at one target once every three turns.
| **Cargo:** 5 tons

```{=ms}
.1C
```
```{=context}
\stopcolumns
\pagebreak[yes]
```
### Sample Modern Vehicles

```{=ms}
.MC 2.1i 0.2i
.sp -1.1v
```
```{=context}
\startcolumns[n=2]
```
#### Car

*Vroom, vroom.*

| **Cost:** \$\$
| **Scale:** +2D
| **Skill:** Driving
| **Body:** 2D
| **MNV:** 1D
| **Move:** 2D+1
| **Crew:** 1
| **Psg:** 4
| **Cargo:** 500 lbs.

#### Fighter Jet

*Sate of the art killing machine.*

| **Cost:** \$\$\$\$\$
| **Scale:** +6D
| **Skill:** Pilot
| **Body:** 2D
| **MNV:** 3D
| **Move:** 3D
| **Crew:** 1 or 2
| **Psg:** 0
| **Weapons:** Weapons: Guns (2D), range: 30/50/100; 4 missiles (4D/ea),
  range: ½ mile/2 miles/5 miles.
| **Cargo:** None

#### Motorcycle

*Darling Heavyson Fatboy.*

| **Cost:** \$
| **Scale:** +2D
| **Skill:** Motorcycle
| **Body:** 1D+2
| **MNV:** 2D
| **Move:** 2D+2
| **Crew:** 1
| **Psg:** 1
| **Cargo:** None

#### Sports Car

*The Lilith Novum.*

| **Cost:** \$\$\$
| **Scale:** +2D
| **Skill:** Driving
| **Body:** 2D
| **MNV:** 2D
| **Move:** 3D
| **Crew:** 1
| **Psg:** 1
| **Cargo:** 200 lbs

#### Tank

*Adams Main Battle Tank.*

| **Cost:** \$\$\$\$
| **Scale:** +4D
| **Skill:** Driving
| **Body:** 6D
| **MNV:** 1D
| **Move:** 2D
| **Crew:** 3
| **Psg:** 1
| **Weapons:** BFG (character scale, see gear); Main Gun (6D), Range: ½
  mile/1 mile/2 miles.
| **Cargo:** 500 lbs

```{=ms}
.1C
```
```{=context}
\stopcolumns
\pagebreak[yes]
```
### Sample Sci-Fi Vehicles

```{=ms}
.MC 2.1i 0.2i
.sp -1.1v
```
```{=context}
\startcolumns[n=2]
```
#### Air Cycle

*The Elsner Skywing.*

| **Cost:** \$
| **Scale:** +2D
| **Skill:** Pilot
| **Body:** 1D+2
| **MNV:** 2D
| **Move:** 3D
| **Crew:** 1
| **Psg:** 1
| **Cargo:** None

#### Capital Ship

*Galaxy Class Destroyer.*

| **Cost:** \$\$\$\$\$\$
| **Scale:** +12D
| **Skill:** Command
| **Body:** 6D
| **MNV:** 0D
| **Move:** 1D
| **Crew:** 5,000
| **Psg:** 500
| **Weapons:** Weapons: 100 AA Guns (3D, Fighter scale), Range 1/3/5; 32
  Plasma Cannons (4D+1), Range 5/10/15; 6 100 Megaton Warheads (8D),
  Range 15. Only 50% of guns or cannons can be on one target at any
  time.
| **Cargo:** 100 kilotons + 30 star fighters

#### Mecha

*The Spartan 300.*

| **Cost:** \$\$\$\$
| **Scale:** +4D
| **Skill:** Mecha
| **Body:** 5D+1
| **MNV:** 1D
| **Move:** 2D
| **Crew:** 1
| **Psg:** 0
| **Weapons:** Weapons: Punch (5D, melee); Arm Gun (4D), Range: 400
  yards/½ mile/1 mile.
| **Cargo:** None

#### Star Fighter

*The Adder Mk II.*

| **Cost:** \$\$\$
| **Scale:** +6D
| **Skill:** Pilot
| **Body:** 2D+1
| **MNV:** 3D+2
| **Move:** 4D
| **Crew:** 1 + 1 robot
| **Psg:** 0
| **Weapons:** Twin Guns (4D), Range: 1/3/5
| **Cargo:** None

#### Star Yacht

*The choice of beginner smugglers.*

| **Cost:** \$\$\$\$
| **Scale:** +6D
| **Skill:** Pilot
| **Body:** 3D+1
| **MNV:** 1D
| **Move:** 3D
| **Crew:** 2
| **Psg:** 8
| **Cargo:** 50 tons

```{=ms}
.1C
```
```{=context}
\stopcolumns
\pagebreak[yes]
```
## The Simple Magic System

Call it Ki, Chi, Sorcery, Latent Psi, etc; it\'s all just different
flavors of magic. Magic lets you break the rules of the universe in
creative ways. Some games let you use flashy spells; others require you
to use more subtle effects. Speak with your GM about the limits of magic
in his game.

### Access to Magic

In some games, none may use magic, in others everyone can. The most
common option is a middle ground that requires the character to start
the game with the Sorcerer esoteric perk.

### Casting Spells

All spells have a target number (TN) listed in their description.
Sorcerers roll *Magic* to determine success. Only one spell may be cast
per turn. Success on the roll mean the spell is cast, see each spell
description for the exact effect achieved. On a failed roll, the
Sorcerer suffers a −1D penalty to their *Magic* skill. Further failures
increase the penalty. One hour of rest with no interruption removes all
penalties.

#### Spells Requiring Multiple Actions

Some spells require additional actions to be taken after casting. For
example, thrown spells require the Sorcerer to cast the spell and then
hit the target by making a *Throwing* skill check. The Sorcerer may wait
until the next turn to throw the spell or they may opt to suffer the
penalty for multiple actions and do them all in one turn.

#### Concentration (CONC)

Some spells require the Sorcerer to maintain concentration for the spell
to remain in effect. Each spell maintained counts as one action.

### Beginning Spells & Learning More

The character knows two spells for each die allocated to *Magic* at
character creation. Learning a new spell costs 2 CP.

### Magic Perks

Characters that are able to learn the *Magic* skill may also purchase
the following Perks.

**Familiar (1):** The character has an imp for a companion. The familiar
can fly at a rate of 60 ft each turn, can talk, and has 1D in each
attribute. He also has 3D in skills. He can\'t cast spells, but he can
turn into a black cat or other small animal at will.

**Totem Spirit (1):** The character has a spiritual advisor that speaks
to him in his dreams or visions. This spirit will likely have a somewhat
alien perspective on matters, and certainly won\'t always just tell the
character everything he knows. Totem Spirits employ riddles, puzzles,
and enjoy sending the character off on ridiculous quests; but they also
have insight and know things man was never meant to know.

### Magic Complications

The GM may also allow special complications for magic capable
characters.

**Demonic Pact:** The character has allied himself with a demon. It
tends to impress all the wrong people. You earn bonus CP any time this
complicates your life.

**White Wizard:** You can\'t harm anyone with your magic. Ever. Earn 1
bonus CP every session.

### Sorcerer\'s Tools

Some special enchanted items are of use only to those capable of using
spells. Activating the bonus granted by an item does not count as an
action. When found a sorcerer must attune the item before he can use it.
This requires the passing of three days while keeping the item close.

**The Cloak** grants +2D to the *Magic* skill test required to use the
Fly and Teleport spells.

**The Crystal Ball** grants +3D to the *Magic* skill test required to
use the Clairvoyance and Divination spells.

**The Magic Wand** grants +1D to any *Magic* skill test when used for
the spell the wand was designed for.

**The Spell Staff** grants +1D to *Magic* once each day.

#### Making Sorcerer\'s Tools

Sorcerers may construct their own tools; this requires time, money, and
CP. During the construction of the item the sorcerer must work for
twelve hours each day. If any days are skipped all effort is lost. At
the end of the process he rolls a *Magic* check vs. the TN listed below.
If he fails all effort and money is wasted but no CP were spent.

```{=ms}
.KS
```
  *Item*         *Cost*     *Time*    *CP*   *TN*
  -------------- ---------- --------- ------ ------
  Cloak          \$\$\$     4 weeks   20     30
  Crystal Ball   \$\$\$\$   8 weeks   30     35
  Magic Wand     \$\$       2 weeks   10     25
  Spell Staff    \$\$\$     4 weeks   15     30

```{=ms}
.KE
```
### Spell Books

When learning new spells accessing another sorcerer\'s spell book
reduces the cost to 1 CP for any spell it contains. A spell can contain
up to six spells. Sorcerers normally create when they are learning new
spells. Afterwards they no longer need the spell book. Some keep them
for apprentices, sentimental value, or fear of somehow forgetting the
spells they have mastered. Others keep their books in case then need to
sell them for money.

### The Grimoire

```{=ms}
.MC 2.1i 0.2i
.sp -1.1v
```
```{=context}
\startcolumns[n=2]
```
#### Animal Growth

TN: 23, Duration: 1 hour, Range: 120 feet, Resisted: None

Increase the scale of a normal animal by one level.

#### Animate Dead

TN: 31, Duration: Permanent, Range: Touch, Resisted: None

The caster touches a dead humanoid giving it unlife as a zombie or
skeleton depending the corpse\'s condition. Undead created this way can
be controlled by the caster\'s *Command* skill. When destroyed they
crumble to dust.

#### Beast Tongue

TN: 19, Duration: Concentration, Range: Self, Resisted: None

The caster can talk to animals.

#### Bless

TN: 19, Duration: 1 hour, Range: 30 foot radius, Resisted: None

All allies within the area of effect receive a +2 bonus to all rolls.

#### Charm

TN: 15, Duration: Concentration, Range: Self, Resisted: None

This spell grants a +4D bonus to all Charm skills.

#### Clairvoyance

TN: 23, Duration: Concentration, Range: 300 feet, Resisted: None

The caster\'s senses leave his own body and project outward to any point
within 300 feet. The caster may move the area he perceives at the rate
of 10 feet per turn. While in this state, he cannot take any physical
action and any damage done to him will end the spell.

#### Conjure Elemental

TN: 31, Duration: Permanent, Range: Zero, Resisted: None

Sorcerers may summon only one elemental per day by using this spell. The
caster also needs a large quantity of the type of element on hand they
wish to conjure. For example, a bonfire for a fire elemental or a well
for a water elemental. Controlling the elemental requires use of the
*Command* skill. Uncontrolled elementals will attack everyone, including
the conjurer.

#### Control Weather

TN: 35, Duration: Concentration, Range: ½ mile radius

The caster dictates the weather in the area affected. He can make it
hot, cold, snowy, rainy, foggy, or calm as desired.

#### Curse

TN: 15 + Resist Roll, Duration: Permanent, Range: Touch, Resisted: Charm

The target of this spell suffers some negative effect determined by the
caster. Examples include being struck mute until hearing a certain word,
deafness or blindness, inability to run or cross running water. This
spell is open ended but the GM has final say on all effects. *Dispel
Magic* will remove any curse.

#### Dark Vision

TN: 23, Duration: 1 hour, Range: Touch, Resisted: None

The target can see 60 feet in the dark.

#### Death Spell

TN: 35, Duration: Instant, Range: 30 feet, Resisted: Special

If successfully cast, the Sorcerer rolls his *Magic* skill without his
Wit attribute for damage. The target resists using only Might. For
example, Melkot casts *Death Spell* on Tamore. Melkot has a Wit of 4D
and 10D in *Magic*. Melkot would roll 6D for damage (10D -- 4D) and
Tamore would resist with his Might.

#### Dispel Magic

TN: Special, Duration: Permanent, Range: 30 feet, Resisted: None

The caster undoes any single spell or permanent magical effect. The
target number is five higher than the spell or effect being targeted.
Some things cannot be dispelled, such as healing and resurrection.

#### Divination

TN: Special, Duration: Concentration, Range: Self, Resisted: None

The Sorcerer can attempt to see the future or the past. The immediate
future or past normally has a TN of 25 while more distant events have a
higher TN. For instance, seeing a year into the future may have a TN of
45 while a year into the past is only 35. If attempting to divine about
specific objects or people that are not present, the difficulty goes up
by 10 or more depending on closeness of relationship to the Sorcerer.

#### Earthquake

TN: 39, Duration: 1 round, Range: 200 feet, Resisted: None

An intense tremor rips the ground in a 50 foot radius from the chosen
epicenter. This collapses structures, opens cracks in the ground, and
more. While the effect lasts creatures on the ground cannot move,
attack, or cast spells. Any creature caught inside a collapsing
structure must resist 6D damage.

#### ESP

TN: 15 + Resist Roll, Duration: Concentration, Range: 50 feet, Resisted:
Charm

When cast you can hear the thoughts of any one person; language is no
barrier.

#### Fly

TN: 23 (or 15), Duration: Concentration, Range: Self, Resisted: None

While maintained the Sorcerer can fly at a rate of 90 feet per round. If
the spell ends before landing the character will float to the ground.
The character may hover and carry up to his own weight aloft. If the
character only wishes to levitate vertically the TN of the spell is 15.

#### Growth

TN: 23 + Special, Duration: 10 Rounds, Range: Self, Resisted: None

The caster grows. Each scale increase adds +10 to the TN. For example,
for a human sorcerer to grow to the size of a dragon would require 2
scale increases making the TN 43.

#### Hasten

TN: 23, Duration: 5 rounds, Range: touch, Resisted: None

Targets have their multiple action penalty reduced by 1D. The effects of
multiple Hasten spells don\'t stack.

#### Heal

TN: Special, Duration: Instant, Range: Touch, Resisted: None

The Sorcerer must concentrate for 6 turns before casting this spell. The
TN is 15 when attempting to heal anyone wounded or severely wounded, 19
for incapacitated characters, and 23 for the mortally wounded. Success
reduces the wound level by one. If *Heal* is used more than once per day
on a target, the target number of additional castings increases by +10.

#### Illusions

TN: Special + Resist Roll, Duration: Concentration, Range: 50 foot
radius, Resisted: Wit

Illusions create false perceptions in the minds of the effected. The
target number is 15 plus 2 per person after the first targeted plus
their individual Resist Roll. Compare results for each person
individually to see if they are affected. GMs may wish to roll for the
highest Resist first and if they fail consider all to have failed.

#### Invisibility

TN: 27, Duration: 1 hour, Range: Touch, Resisted: None

This spell renders the target almost unseen granting a +5D bonus to
*Stealth*.

#### Light

TN: 15, Duration: 1 hour, Range: 100 feet, Resisted: None

The targeted location or object glows as brightly as a torch.

#### Lightning Bolt

TN: 23, Duration: Instant, Range: 150 feet, Resisted: None

The caster throws lightning. This requires the use of the *Throwing*
skill. If the caster attempts to throw it the same round it is cast the
multiple action penalty applies to both the casting and throwing of the
spell. The caster may also choose to throw the lightning the round after
casting to avoid the penalty. However if he waits any longer the effect
dissipates. Targets may make a *Dodge* roll to avoid being hit. A
successful hit inflicts 5D damage. Armor does not protect against
*Lightning Bolt*.

#### Paralysis

TN: 15 + Resist Roll, Duration: 1 hour, Range: 150, Resisted: Might

The target becomes paralyzed, freezing in place.

#### Petrify

TN: 25 + Resist Roll, Duration: Permanent, Range: 100 feet, Resisted:
Might

Turns one creature into a statue include all gear and any items held.
*Dispel Magic* will return the target to their normal state.

#### Possession

TN: 25 + Resist Roll, Duration: Concentration (special), Range: 500
feet, Resisted: Charm

The sorcerer takes control of the physical body of a single character or
creature. The sorcerer may make the possessed being take any physical
action it is capable of, but can\'t make it use *Magic* or any Perk. The
possessed being uses its own Might and Agility, but skills depend on
those of the sorcerer. The possessed may contest the sorcerer for
control each round.

#### Resist Elements

TN: 19, Duration: 1 hour, Range: 30 feet, Resisted: None

When cast, the Sorcerer selects one element such as fire, cold, or
electricity, and the target is granted a +1D bonus to resist damage from
that source.

#### Resurrection

TN: 60, Duration: Permanent, Range: touch, Resisted: None

A body which has been dead for less than one month may be restored to
life; but no one who has died from old age can be raised. Whether or not
the casting of this spell is successful the Sorcerer\'s *Magic* skill is
reduced by 3D for one day.

#### See Magic Aura

TN: 15, Duration: Concentration, Range: 30 feet, Resisted: None

The caster can see a magical glow on anything enchanted.

#### Shape Change

TN: 15, Duration: Concentration, Range: 30 feet, Resisted: None

The caster transforms into any creature (not specific individuals)
gaining its physical attributes. Spells may not be cast while changed.
The TN is increased by +10 per increase in scale.

#### Slumber

TN: 10 + Resist Roll, Duration: 1 hour, Range: 30 foot radius, Resisted:
Wit

The Sorcerer can affect as many targets as he has dice in *Magic*.
Targets resist individually, falling into a deep sleep on failure.

#### Still Mind

TN: 43, Duration: Concentration, Range: Self, Resisted: None

The Sorcerer is protected from all spells that influence, detect, or
read emotions and thoughts.

#### Telekinesis

TN: 31 + Special, Duration: Concentration, Range: 150 Feet, Resisted:
None / Might

The caster moves up to 50 lbs per die in *Magic* up to 30 feet per
round. Living beings may resist using Might.

#### Teleport

TN: Special, Duration: Instant, Range: 10 foot radius, Resisted: None

Sorcerers instantly transport themselves or other beings to a designated
destination at any distance. Unwilling subjects cannot be teleported.
The base TN is 30 for one target, plus 5 more for each additional
target. A caster may not teleport to any place he has not seen before.

```{=ms}
.1C
```
```{=context}
\stopcolumns
```
### Enchanted Items

#### Scrolls

These are written spells nearly ready to cast. They allow a caster who
doesn\'t know a spell to use it once before it burns to ash. The
character must be able to use spells to read a scroll.

#### Potions

Distilled arcane power. The magic is released when consumed.

**A Potion of Healing** automatically heals a single wound level.

**A Potion of Skill** grant\'s +2D to a selected skill for ten minutes.
A different variant of the potion exists for each skill.

**A Potion of Changing** will *Shape Change* the character into any one
predetermined form. The effect lasts one hour.

#### Enchanted Arms and Armor

These grant a bonus or have a unique effect when wielded.

**The Axe of Dwarf Mercy** deals an additional +1D damage when striking
Goblins or Orcs.

**The Valiant Sword** grants its wielder an additional +1D to *Command*
allied troops.

**The Shield of Faith** grants its wielder +1D to resist any magic.

#### Other Items

**Cloak of Stealth** (*Stealth* +1D)

**Flying Carpet** (moves 90 feet per round)

**Ring of Slyness** (*Persuasion* +1D)

```{=ms}
.bp
```
```{=context}
\pagebreak[yes]
```
## Sample Characters by Genre

The characters presented below are sometimes less powerful than starting
player characters, sometimes more. Here is a scale to help determine
potency:

  ------------ -------------------------------
  \*           Not a threat usually.

  \*\*         Minor threat only in a group.

  \*\*\*       Credible threat.

  \*\*\*\*     Watch out, Heroes!

  \*\*\*\*\*   Bold or foolish to even try.
  ------------ -------------------------------

Skills listed in each entry include the base attribute, but effects of
character scale haven\'t been prefigured. All attributes, skills, and
gear are just for typical or average characters. Superior and inferior
individuals exist of every type.

Static defenses are precalculated with any skills listed. Soak is listed
as X(Y) where X is the base soak value and Y includes any armor or other
bonus listed. If a bonus die is granted to *Brawling*, *Dodge*, or melee
skills simply add 3 per die to the static score.

While listed by genre type, these are only rough guidelines. If you need
a bloodthirsty alien race for a space opera campaign, take the orc
template, change its name to Xargon, arm them with laser rifles and a 4D
skill with them. Likewise, if you need a few brooding emo vampires, take
the vampire template as written, give him hair product, eye make-up, a
trendy wardrobe, a tattoo, an attitude, and go team Edgar.

::: {.container .box}
**Note:** Animals have a Wit score of 0D due to their limited
intelligence. Even very clever animals have this restriction.
:::

### All Genres

#### Average Human

*"Everyman."*

| Potency: \*, Scale: 0D
| Might: 2D, Agility: 2D, Wit: 2D, Charm: 2D
| Skills: Any three at +1D each.
| Gear: As needed by profession.
| Static: Dodge 6, Soak 6

#### Ape

*The Great Ape or Yeti.*

| Potency: \*\*\*, Scale: 0D
| Might: 4D+2, Agility: 2D+1, Wit: 0D, Charm: 1D
| Skills: Acrobatics 3D+1, Brawling 6D+2, Stealth 4D+1
| Static: Dodge 7, Block 20, Soak 14

#### Bear

*Black, brown, or grizzly.*

| Potency: \*\*\*, Scale: 0D
| Might: 5D+1, Wit: 0D, Agility: 2D, Charm: 1D
| Skills: Brawling 6D (claws: 6D+1 damage)
| Static: Dodge 6, Block 18, Soak 16

#### Dog

*Man\'s best friend.*

| Potency: \*\*, Scale: 0D
| Might: 2D, Agility: 2D+1, Wit: 0D, Charm: 1D
| Static: Dodge 7, Soak 6

#### Elk

*Any large herbivore.*

| Potency: \*\*, Scale: 0D
| Might: 4D+2, Agility: 1D+2, Wit: 0D, Charm: 1D
| Static: Dodge 5, Soak 14

#### Elephant

*They never forget.*

| Potency: \*\*, Scale: +2D
| Might: 4D+1, Agility: 1D, Wit: 0D, Charm: 1D
| Static: Dodge 3, Soak 13

#### Horse

*Saddle up.*

| Potency: \*\*, Scale: 0D
| Might: 4D+2, Agility: 2D+2, Wit: 0D, Charm: 1D
| Static: Dodge 8, Soak 14

#### Monkey

*A pirate\'s best friend.*

| Potency: \*, Scale: 0D
| Might: 1D, Agility: 4D+2, Wit: 0D, Charm: 2D+1
| Skills: Acrobatics 6D+2, Dodge 6D+2
| Learns simple tricks more easily.
| Static: Dodge 20, Soak 3

#### Snake

*An archaeologist\'s nightmare.*

| Potency: \*, Scale: 0D
| Might: 1D+2, Agility: 3D+1, Wit: 0D, Charm: 1D
| Skills: Brawling 3D, Stealth 4D
| Special: Target\'s bitten by a snake must roll pass a Moderate Might
  roll or be poisoned. Poisoned victims suffer 2D to 4D damage on the
  species of snake.
| Static: Dodge 10, Soak 5

#### Tiger

*Jungle cats, ho!*

| Potency: \*\*, Scale: 0D
| Might: 3D+1, Agility: 3D+2, Wit: 0D, Charm: 1D
| Skills: Brawling 5D+1, Stealth 4D+2
| Static: Dodge 11, Block 16, Soak 10

#### Wolf

*They hunt in packs.*

| Potency: \*\*, Scale: 0D
| Might: 3D+2, Agility: 2D+1, Wit: 0D, Charm: 1D
| Skills: Brawling 4D+2, Dodge: 4D+1
| Static: Dodge 13, Block 14, Soak 11

```{=ms}
.bp
```
### Modern Stock Characters

#### Confidence Man

*"Have I got a deal for you."*

| Potency: \*\*\*, Scale: 0D
| Might: 2D, Agility: 2D+1, Wit: 3D+1, Charm: 3D+1
| Skills: Dodge 3D+1, Persuasion 5D+2, Seduce 5D
| Gear: Counterfeit money, fake ID, stolen credit card.
| Static: Dodge 10, Block 6, Parry 6, Soak 6

#### Criminal (Thug)

*Mooks!*

| Might: 2D+2, Agility: 2D+1, Wit: 1D+2, Charm: 1D+1
| Skills: Brawling 3D, Pistol 3D
| Gear: Crowbar, heavy pistol, ski mask.
| Static: Dodge 7, Block 9, Soak 8

#### Ninja

*Agents of the shadows.*

| Potency: \*\*\*\*, Scale: 0D
| Might: 3D+1, Agility: 4D, Wit: 2D+2, Charm: 2D
| Skills: Brawling 5D, Dodge 5D, Stealth 5D, Sword 5D+1
| Gear: Sword (6D).
| Static: Dodge 15, Block 15, Parry 16, Soak 7

#### Policeman

*To serve and protect.*

| Potency: \*\*, Scale: 0D
| Might: 2D+2, Agility: 2D+1, Wit: 2D, Charm: 2D
| Skills: Brawling 3D, Pistol 3D, Search 3D
| Gear: Armor vest, pistol, handcuffs.
| Static: Dodge 7, Block 9, Soak 8(11)

```{=ms}
.bp 
```
#### Soldier

*The few, the proud.*

| Potency: \*\*\*, Scale: 0D
| Might: 3D+1, Agility: 2D+1, Wit: 2D, Charm: 2D
| Skills: Dodge 3D+1, Rifle 4D+1
| Gear: Armor jack (+6), rifle.
| Static: Dodge 10, Block 10, Soak 10(16)

#### Spy

*Licensed to kill.*

| Potency: \*\*\*\*, Scale: 0D
| Might: 2D+2, Agility: 3D+1, Wit: 3D, Charm: 3D
| Skills: Dodge 5D+1, Pistol 5D+1, Stealth 4D
| Gear: Camera, passport, pistol, secret phone, sports car, suicide
  pill.
| Static: Dodge 16, Block 9, Soak 8

### Sci-Fi Stock Characters

#### Apprentice-Mystic

*Devoted Pupil.*

| Potency: \*\*\*, Scale: 0D
| Might: 3D, Agility: 3D+2, Wit: 3D, Charm: 2D+1
| Skills: Dodge 4D+2, Magic 5D, Sword 4D
| Perks: Sorcerer.
| Spells: Charm, ESP, Hasten, See Magic Aura.
| Gear: Plasma sword.
| Static: Dodge 14, Block 9, Parry 12, Soak 9

#### Cybercop

*Stand down citizen.*

| Potency: \*\*\*, Scale: 0D
| Might: 4D, Agility: 3D+1, Wit: 2D+1, Charm: 2D+1
| Skills: Brawling 5D, Dodge 4D+1, Pistol 5D+1, Rifle 4D+1
| Perks: Cybernetics (dermal armor +3), cyber holster in leg).
| Gear: Armor jack (+6), heavy pistol, rifle.
| Static: Dodge 13, Block 15, Parry 12, Soak 12(21)

#### Kid Genius

*You didn\'t know that?! Hah!*

| Potency: \*\*, Scale: 0D
| Might: 1D+1, Agility: 3D, Wit: 3D+2, Charm: 2D
| Skills: Dodge 5D, Science 4D+2, Throwing 4D
| Gear: Baseball, pocket knife, galaxy guide.
| Static: Dodge 15, Block 4, Parry 4, Soak 4

#### Knight-Mystic

*Monastic warriors of truth.*

| Potency: \*\*\*\*, Scale: 0D
| Might: 3D, Agility: 3D+2, Wit: 3D, Charm: 2D+1
| Skills: Courage 5D, Diplomacy 5D+1, Dodge 6D+1, Magic 8D, Sword 6D+2
| Perks: Sorcerer.
| Spells: Charm, Clairvoyance, Dark Vision, Divination, ESP, Hasten,
  Resist Elements, See Magic Aura, Telekinesis.
| Gear: Plasma sword.
| Static: Dodge 19, Block 9, Parry 20, Soak 9

#### Reptoid Pilot

*Smuggler with 2 hearts of gold.*

| Potency: \*\*\*, Scale: 0D
| Might: 4D, Agility: 3D+1, Wit: 2D+1, Charm: 2D+1
| Skills: Dodge 5D+1, Stealth 4D, Pistol 4D, Pilot 5D
| Perks: Reptoid
| Comp: Unlucky in Money (huge debt)
| Gear: Plasma pistol, star yacht.
| Static: Dodge 16, Block 12, Parry 12, Soak 12(13)

#### Robot Mechanic

*Beep. I mean yes sir.*

| Potency: \*, Scale: 0D
| Might: 3D, Agility: 1D+2, Wit: 4D, Charm: 1D+1
| Skills: Navigation 5D, Pick Lock 5D, Repair 6D
| Perks: Robot, Built-In Tools (drill, extinguisher, oiler, saw,
  spanner, spot welder, magnetic feet)
| Comp: Personal Code (pacifist)
| Static: Dodge 16, Block 12, Parry 12, Soak 12(13)

### Pulp Stock Characters

#### Cultist

*We\'re not worthy.*

| Potency: \*\*, Scale: 0D
| Might: 2D, Agility: 2D, Wit: 2D+1, Charm: 1D+2
| Skills: Brawling 3D, Stealth 3D, Magic 3D
| Gear: Hooded robe, knife.
| Static: Dodge 6, Block 9, Parry 6, Soak 6

#### Dame in Distress

*Anything goes*

| Potency: \*\*, Scale: 0D
| Might: 1D+2, Agility: 2D, Wit: 2D+1, Charm: 3D
| Skills: Brawling 2D+2, Dodge 4D, Seduce 5D
| Gear: Compact mirror, hair pin, lip stick.
| Static: Dodge 12, Block 8, Parry 5, Soak 5

#### Elder God

*Klatu Barada Nikto.*

| Potency: \*\*\*\*\*\*\*, Scale: +12D
| Might: 5D, Agility: 3D+2, Wit: 10D, Charm: 10D
| Skills: Magic 17D
| Spells: All.
| Perks: Maddening Visage (any character that sees the Elder God must
  make a Heroic Charm roll or gain Crazy complication). Cosmic Appetite
  (It will eat D6 characters before returning to its home dimension).
  Dimensional Shift (can return to its home dimension at will).
  Sorcerer.
| Complication: Must be summoned.
| Static: Dodge 11, Block 15, Soak 15

#### Mad Scientist

*1.21 jigawatts should do the it!*

| Potency: \*\*, Scale: 0D
| Might: 2D, Agility: 2D, Wit: 4D, Charm: 2D
| Skills: Dodge 4D, Repair 6D, Science 7D
| Complication: Crazy.
| Static: Dodge 12, Block 6, Parry 6, Soak 6

#### Scaly Kin

*Survivors out of time.*

| Potency: \*\*\*, Scale: 0D
| Might: 2D+1, Agility: 2D+2, Wit: 2D, Charm: 3D
| Skills: Dodge 3D+2, Pole Arm 3D+1, Stealth: 4D
| Perk: ESP
| Static: Dodge 11, Block 7, Parry 10, Soak 7

### Fantasy Stock Characters

#### Barbarian

*Savage from the north hills.*

| Potency: \*\*, Scale: 0D
| Might: 3D+2, Agility: 2D+1, Wit: 1D+2, Charm: 2D+1
| Skills: Brawling 4D+2, Dodge 4D+1, Sword 5D+2, Track 3D+2
| Gear: Leather armor (+2), two-handed sword.
| Static: Dodge 13, Block 14, Parry 17, Soak 11(13)

#### Dwarf Warrior

*Clansman of the Great Hall.*

| Potency: \*\*\*
| Might: 4D, Agility: 2D, Wit: 2D, Charm: 2D
| Skills: Axe 5D, Brawling 5D, Dodge 3D
| Perks: Dwarf
| Gear: Axe, chain mail (+6).
| Static: Dodge 9, Block 15, Parry 15, Soak 8(14)

#### Elf Bowman

*Guardian of the forest.*

| Potency: \*\*\*, Scale: 0D
| Might: 2D, Agility: 4D, Wit: 2D, Charm: 2D
| Skills: Bow 5D, Dodge 5D, Sword 3D
| Perks: Elf
| Gear: Bow & arrows, leather armor (+2), sword.
| Static: Dodge 15, Block 6, Parry 9, Soak 6(8)

```{=ms}
.bp
```
#### Guard

*Guard, gladiator, or soldier.*

| Potency: \*\*, Scale: 0D
| Might: 3D, Agility: 2D, Wit: 2D, Charm: 2D
| Skills: Brawling 4D, Dodge 3D, Sword or Mace 4D
| Gear: Leather armor (+2), sword or mace.
| Static: Dodge 9, Block 12, Parry 12, Soak 9(11)

#### Knight

*For King and country!*

| Potency: \*\*\*, Scale: 0D
| Might: 3D+1, Agility: 2D+2, Wit: 2D, Charm: 2D
| Skills: Dodge 3D+2, Sword 4D+2, Riding 3D
| Gear: Horse, plate mail (+9), shield (+4), sword.
| Static: Dodge 11, Block 10, Parry 14, Soak 10(23)

#### Priest

*Righteous defender.*

| Potency: \*\*\*, Scale: 0D
| Might: 2D+1, Agility: 2D, Wit: 2D+2, Charm: 3D
| Skills: Dodge 3D, Magic 4D+2.
| Perks: Sorcerer.
| Spells: Heal, Bless, +2 more
| Gear: Chain mail (+3), staff.
| Static: Dodge 9, Block 7, Parry 7, Soak 7(13)

#### Pirate

*Yoho!*

| Potency: \*\*\*, Scale: 0D
| Might: 2D, Agility: 4D, Wit: 2D, Charm: 2D
| Skills: Brawling 3D, Dodge 5D, Navigation 3D, Sailing 5D, Sword 4D
| Gear: Compass or spy glass, sword.
| Static: Dodge 15, Block 9, Parry 12, Soak 6

```{=ms}
.bp
```
#### Thief

*What\'s yours is mine.*

| Potency: \*\*, Scale: 0D
| Might: 2D, Agility: 3D+1, Wit: 2D, Charm: 2D+2
| Skills: Pick Locks 3D, Pickpocket 4D, Stealth 5D
| Gear: Leather armor (+2), lock picks, knife.
| Static: Dodge 9, Block 12, Parry 12, Soak 9(11)

#### Wizard

*Sorcerer or necromancer.*

| Potency: \*\*\*\*, Scale: 0D
| Might: 1D+2, Agility: 2D+1, Wit: 4D, Charm: 2D
| Perks: Sorcerer.
| Skills: Dodge 3D+1, Magic 6D
| Gear: Knife
| Spells: ESP, Lightning Bolt, Paralysis, +3 more
| Static: Dodge 10, Block 4, Parry 4, Soak 5

### Fantasy Bestiary

#### Centaur

*Can you ride me? I say nay.*

| Potency: \*\*, Scale: 0D
| Might: 4D, Agility: 2D+1, Wit: 1D+2, Charm: 2D
| Skills: Bow 4D+1, Dodge 3D+1, Stamina 5D
| Gear: Bow & arrows.
| Static: Dodge 10, Block 12, Parry 12, Soak 12

#### Devil (Minor)

*I\'m the best there\'s ever been.*

| Potency: \*\*\*\*, Scale: 0D
| Might: 3D, Agility: 2D+2, Wit: 3D+1, Charm: 5D
| Skills: Brawling 5D, Dodge 4D+2, Persuasion 7D, Seduce 6D
| Perks: Regeneration, Speaks All Languages.
| Static: Dodge 14, Block 15, Soak 9

```{=ms}
.bp
```
#### Dragon

*Master of all he surveys.*

| Potency: \*\*\*\*\*, Scale: +4D
| Might: 4D, Agility: 2D, Wit: 4D, Charm: 3D
| Skills: Brawling 5D, Breath Attack 5D
| Attacks: Bite (character scale, 8D damage) or Bite (dragon scale, 4D
  damage) Tail Bash (character scale, 4D damage), Breath Fire (3D
  damage, range 60 ft)
| Perks: Scales (+3 armor), Fly 90 ft/round
| Static: Dodge 6, Block 15, Soak 12(15)

#### Elemental (Fire)

*Body of living flame.*

| Potency: \*\*\*, Scale: 0D
| Might: 4D+1, Agility: 4D+2, Wit: 1D, Charm: 1D
| Skills: Brawling 5D+1, Dodge 5D+2
| Perks: Ignite by Touch, Targets hit by brawling attack must make a
  Moderate Might check or catch fire (4D damage/round until
  extinguished).
| Comp: Weakness to Water (1D damage/gallon).
| Static: Dodge 17, Block 16, Soak 13

#### Fairie

*Third star to the right...*

| Potency: \*, Scale: 0D
| Might: 1D, Agility: 4D+1, Wit: 2D, Charm: 2D+2
| Skills: Athletics 3D, Dodge 6D+1, Magic 4D
| Perks: Sorcerer, Fly 60 ft/round
| Spells: Charm, Illusions, Light, Slumber
| Static: Dodge 19, Block 3, Soak 3

#### Gargoyle

*Stone guardian.*

| Potency: \*\*\*, Scale: 0D
| Might: 2D, Agility: 2D+2, Wit: 1D, Charm: 1D
| Skills: Brawling 4D+1, Dodge 4D, Search 3D+2, Stamina 4D, Stealth 4D+1
| Perk: Fly 60 ft/round, Armor Skin (+9)
| Static: Dodge 12, Block 13, Soak 6(15)

#### Ghost

*Doomed spirit.*

| Potency: \*\*\*\*, Scale: 0D
| Might: 0D, Agility: 4D, Wit: 3D+2, Charm: 3D+1
| Skills: Brawling 4D+2, Dodge 5D, Stealth 6D
| Perks: Insubstantial (can only be harmed by magic or enchanted
  weapons; uses Wit in place of Might to resist and deal damage);
  Mournful Wail (any who hear the wail must make a Moderate Courage
  check or flee).
| Static: Dodge 15, Block 14, Soak 11

#### Giant

*Grind your bones to paste.*

| Potency: \*\*\*\*\*, Scale: +4D
| Might: 5D, Agility: 2D, Wit: 2D, Charm: 3D
| Skills: Brawling 7D, Mace 7D, Throwing 4D
| Gear: Mace (tree trunk). Boulders: 3D damage, range 20/40/60
| Static: Dodge 6, Block 21, Parry 21, Soak 15

#### Goblin

*Vermin from below.*

| Potency: \*\*, Scale: 0D
| Might: 1D+1, Agility: 2D+1, Wit: 1D+1, Charm: 1D
| Skills: Bow 3D, Dodge 3D+1, Stealth 2D+2
| Gear: Bow & arrows, knife, shield (+4)
| Static: Dodge 10, Block 4, Parry 4, Soak 4(8)

#### Golem

*Automatons of destruction.*

| Potency: \*\*\*\*, Scale: +2D
| Might: 4D+1, Agility: 2D, Wit: 1D, Charm: 1D
| Skills: Brawling 6D+1, Dodge 4D, Lift 6D+1
| Perks: Armor Skin (+3)
| Static: Dodge 12, Block 19, Soak 13(16)

```{=ms}
.bp
```
#### Gorgon

*With baited breath.*

| Potency: \*\*\*, Scale: 0D
| Might: 5D+1, Agility: 1D+2, Wit: 0D, Charm: 1D
| Skills: Brawling 6D+2, Breath Attack 3D+2
| Perks: Armor Skin (+5), Petrifying Breath (60 ft range, any creature
  caught in its breath must make a Moderate Stamina check or be
  paralyzed for 1d6 rounds).
| Static: Dodge 5, Block 20, Soak 16(21)

#### Griffon

*Hunters of the sky.*

| Potency: \*\*\*, Scale: 0D
| Might: 3D+2, Agility: 3D+1, Wit: 1D, Charm: 1D
| Skills: Brawling 5D, Dodge 5D+1, Stamina 6D
| Perks: Fly (60 ft/round), Talons (+1D damage)
| Static: Dodge 16, Block 15, Soak 11

#### Harpy

*She\'s a maneater.*

| Potency: \*\*\*, Scale: 0D
| Might: 2D+2, Agility: 3D+1, Wit: 2D, Charm: 1D
| Skills: Brawling 4D+2, Dodge 5D, Stealth 5D
| Perk: Fly (60 ft/round), Talons (+1D damage)
| Static: Dodge 15, Block 14, Soak 8

#### Hell Hound

*The devil\'s lapdog.*

| Potency: \*\*\*, Scale: 0D
| Might: 3D+2, Agility: 2D+1, Wit: 1D, Charm: 1D
| Skills: Breath Attack 4D+1, Brawling 4D+2, Dodge 3D+1, Tracking 5D
| Perks: Fire Breathing (20 ft range, 3D damage)
| Static: Dodge 10, Block 14, Soak 11

```{=ms}
.bp
```
#### Hydra

*Many-headed terror.*

| Potency: \*\*\*\*\*, Scale: +4D
| Might: 3D, Agility: 2D, Wit: 1D, Charm: 1D
| Skills: Brawling 5D, Search 4D
| Perks: Hydra Heads (A Hydra starts with three heads and has one
  Wounded level for each head but has no Severely Wounded level. A head
  is destroyed if it takes a Wounded damage level. Three rounds after a
  head is destroyed two new ones take its place. These heads provide
  extra Wounded levels.) Extra Attacks (make one unpenalized attack for
  each head.)
| Static: Dodge 6, Block 15, Soak 9

#### Medusa

*Stone cold killer.*

| Potency: \*\*\*\*\*, Scale: 0D
| Might: 2D+2, Agility: 2D+2, Wit: 2D+2, Charm: 1D
| Skills: Bow 4D+2, Dodge 4D+2, Stealth 4D
| Gear: Bow & arrows.
| Perks: Petrifying Visage (setting eyes upon a medusa will turn a
  character to stone if they fail a Difficult Stamina check. To avoid
  looking at her while targeting her requires a Moderate Wit check or
  closing one\'s eyes. Closed eyes incur a −20 penalty to the attack.)
| Static: Dodge 14, Block 8, Soak 10

#### Minotaur

*Master of the maze.*

| Potency: \*\*\*, Scale 0D
| Might: 5D+2, Agility: 2D+1, Wit: 1D+2, Charm: 1D+1
| Skills: Pole Arm 6D+2, Dodge 3D+1, Tracking 5D+2
| Gear: Spear.
| Static: Dodge 10, Block 17, Parry 20, Soak 17

#### Ogre

*Mercenaries and brigands.*

| Potency: \*\*\*\*, Scale: +2D
| Might: 4D, Agility: 1D+1, Wit: 1D+1, Charm: 1D+1
| Skills: Axe 6D, Brawling 5D+2, Dodge 3D+1
| Gear: Axe, leather armor (+2).
| Static: Dodge 10, Block 17, Parry 18, Soak 12(14)

#### Orc

*Scourge of civilization.*

| Potency: \*\*\*, Scale: 0D
| Might: 3D+1, Agility: 2D, Wit: 1D+2, Charm: 1D
| Skills: Dodge 3D, Stealth 3D, Sword 4D+1
| Gear: Sword, shield (+4).
| Static: Dodge 9, Block 10, Parry 13, Soak 10(14)

#### Pegasus

*Sky mount of the elves.*

| Potency: \*\*\*, Scale: 0D
| Might: 4D+1, Agility: 2D+2, Wit: 1D, Charm: 2D
| Skills: Athletics 3D, Dodge 4D+2
| Perks: Fly (60 ft/round).
| Static: Dodge 14, Block 13, Soak 13

#### Phoenix

*The eternal bird.*

| Potency: \*\*\*\*, Scale: +2D
| Might: 2D+1, Agility: 3D+2, Wit: 2D, Charm: 2D
| Skills: Brawling 6D, Dodge 6D+2
| Perks: Fly (60 ft/round)
| Explosive Death (when killed a 20 ft radius 5D fireball erupts from
  its body). Resurrection (at the next sunrise a new phoenix rises from
  the ashes.)
| Static: Dodge 20, Block 18, Soak 7

#### Rat of Unusual Size

*Most dispute they exists.*

| Potency: \*\*, Scale: 0D
| Might: 3D, Agility: 2D, Wit: 0D, Charm: 1D
| Skills: Athletics 4D, Brawling 4D, Dodge 3D
| Static: Dodge 9, Block 12, Soak 9

#### Skeleton

*Fleshless undead.*

| Potency: \*\*, Scale: 0D
| Might: 2D, Agility: 3D, Wit: 0D, Charm: 0D
| Static: Dodge 9, Block 6, Parry 6, Soak 6

#### Troll

*Nearly mindless killers.*

| Potency: \*\*\*\*, Scale: 0D
| Might: 6D, Agility: 2D, Wit: 1D, Charm: 1D
| Perks: Regeneration
| Comp: Weakness to fire (+2D damage)
| Gear: Club.
| Static: Dodge 6, Block 18, Parry 18, Soak 18

#### Vampire

*Cursed to feed on the living.*

| Potency: \*\*\*\*\*, Scale: 0D
| Might: 3D+1, Agility: 4D+1, Wit: 3D+1, Charm: 4D
| Skills: Athletics 5D, Brawling 5D, Dodge 6D+1, History 5D, Seduce 6D,
  Stealth 5D
| Perks: ESP, Bite (the vampire heals a wound level when inflicting at
  least a serious wound by brawling. Anyone killed this way rises as a
  vampire the next night.)
| Comp: Weakness to Sunlight (the vampire suffers a −2D to all rolls and
  −6 to all Static combat scores while in direct sunlight.) Stake
  through the heart (targeting a vampire\'s heart with a wooden stake
  adds 25 to the TN to hit but kills it instantly.)
| Static: Dodge 19, Block 15, Parry 10, Soak 10

#### Werewolf

*He\'s the hairy hairy gent.*

| Potency: \*\*\*, Scale: 0D
| Might: 4D, Agility: 3D+2, Wit: 1D+2, Charm: 2D
| Skills: Brawling 5D, Dodge 5D+2, Stealth 5D
| Perks: Regeneration, Damage Immunity (can only be harmed by silver,
  magic, and enchanted weapons.) Infectious Attack (anyone who is
  Severely Wounded or worse by a werewolf must make a Moderate Charm
  roll or transforms into a werewolf during the full moon).
| Static: Dodge 17, Block 15, Soak 12

#### Zombie

*Freshly risen undead.*

| Potency: \*\*, Scale: 0D
| Might: 3D, Agility: 2D, Wit: 0D, Charm: 0D
| Static: Dodge 6, Block 9, Parry 9, Soak 9

```{=ms}
.bp
```
```{=context}
\pagebreak[yes]
```
## Optional Rules

By its nature [Minimal OpenD6]{.title-ref} is highly customizable. With
just a few choices you can change it from a light hearted game of
keystone cops to gritty survival horror. While it is always good to
remember that all rules are optional when preparing for the game the
following ideas are meant to help give you further inspiration in
adjusting the game to best fit your needs. In the end the only hard and
fast rule is to play the game the way your group enjoys.

### Renaming Attributes

By changing attribute names GMs can influence how a game feels. For
Swashbuckling games the four attributes could be called Power, Grace,
Reason, and Poise. If set in 70\'s Grindhouse they could transform into
Muscles, Moves, Brains, and Cool.

### Varying the Number of Attribute Dice

Default starting player characters have 12 dice to spend on attributes.
This makes them heroic in nature and generally competent in everything.
By changing the number of attribute dice the feel of play is altered.
The following chart provides guidelines for total attribute dice to use
based on the power scale of the game:

-   8 dice = The common man.
-   9 dice = Experienced. Well trained in their specialty.
-   10 dice = Competent. A cut above John Q Public.
-   11 dice = Veteran. Easily stands out from the rest.
-   12 dice = Heroic. The default level of play.
-   13 dice = World Class. Has an edge in most everything.
-   14+ dice = Legendary characters. Herculean in nature.

### Expanded Number of Attributes

The default four attributes cover most situations a character might come
across. This also makes them fairly broad. If a greater division is
desired extra attributes can be added. Examples include Perception
(separated from Wit), Mechanical (from Agility and Wit), Courage (from
Charm) and Toughness (from Might).

**Beginning Attribute Dice:** When adding extra attributes each player
receives three additional dice per attribute added for heroic level
games. If 6 attributes are used in place of 4, players would divide 18D
among them.

**Effects on Skills:** If your GM has increased the number of attributes
he will provide you with a breakdown of where each skill now defaults.

### Increasing the Attribute Range

Characters are normally limited to 4D in an attribute unless a perk
modifies this. Some GMs may wish to offer an upper maximum of 5D, 6D, or
higher. When using this option the dice are spent as normal. Other GMs
may not be so comfortable with such casually powerful characters. They
may choose a more costly option instead.

### Higher Attributes at a Price

Under this rule characters can select attributes above 4D or whatever
limits the GM sets, but they cost twice as much as normal beyond that
limit. For example, a GM declares attributes are purchased as normal up
to 4D but he allows higher attributes at a price up to 5D. A character
who spends 6D in Might would record 5D as their Might attribute. Another
character wants an Agility of 4D+2. This would cost him 5D+1 attribute
dice.

### No Attributes

All skills default to a base 2D and at character creation players
receive 16D to spend on skills. Up to 4D can be spent in any one skill.
For example, if playing a Gunslinger, the player may spend 4D in
*Pistol*, 1D in *Rifle*, 3D in *Toughness* (to resist damage) 4D in
*Dodge*, 3D in *Brawling*, and 1D in *Gamble*; recording it like this:

::: {.container .box}
**Gunslinger:** 5D Brawl, 6D Dodge, 3D Gamble, 6D Pistol, 3D Rifle, 5D
Toughness.
:::

### Adding Paranormal Abilities

Paranormal Abilities are special for two reasons; first it is possible
to have 0D in them, representing mundane characters. The second is that
those who do have them gain access to restricted powers. For example in
a vampire game characters might use Blood Potency, Dominate,
Foretelling, Spirit, and Transformation; during character creation the
player could spend attribute dice to gain some access to one or more
them.

No extra attribute dice are given for Paranormal Abilities at character
creation. This reduces a character\'s mundane attributes but the powers
granted by their paranormal gifts make up for it. GMs will define which,
if any, are used in their games and how they work in the setting.

Characters who begin with 0D in a Paranormal Ability may be allowed to
purchase it later with GM permission. We suggest the first die cost 10
or 20 CP.

### Quasi Skills

These are purchased as attributes at character creation but afterwards
are raised with CP like skills and don\'t have any skills under them.
GMs might increase the cost to raise these skills based on a
character\'s access to teachers or suitable training material. For
example, a game focused on Angels might include the quasi skills of
*Spiritual*, *Etheric*, and *Corporeal*. A starting character may have
*Spiritual* 2D *Etheric* 1D, and *Corporeal* 0D. Later, studying under
one of his elder\'s the angel would spend 2 CP to improve Spiritual to
2D+1.

### Paranormal Attributes with Skills

These are the same as any other attributes except that characters can
have 0D in the attribute and no access to their related skills. In a
game focused on werewolf naturists the GM might create the attributes
Elemental and Spiritual. Under the Elemental attribute the skills may be
*Air*, *Earth*, *Fire*, and *Water*; while Spiritual includes
*Communing*, *Summoning*, and *Channeling*.

### Varying Starting Skill Dice

Default starting player characters receive 7 dice to spend on skills and
perks and can\'t spend more than 2D on any one skill. This represents
fledgling heroic level characters. The GM might grant them additional
dice for a more difficult campaign. He may also allow them to spend more
than 2D in any single skill. The number of dice and maximum allocations
should be weighed carefully to fit the desires of the campaign.

### High Skills Rolls Increasing Damage

When using this rule damage is boosted by 1 point for every 5 points you
exceeded the target number to hit. If a warrior needed to beat a Parry
of 14 and rolled a 26 on his attack, this would increase the damage by
+2 since the target was beaten by 12.

For increased deadliness, simply reduce the number needed to exceed the
roll by to increase damage. If every 3 points of success translates to 1
point of damage skilled characters are deadly.

### Independent Skills

Skills normally always default to one particular attribute, for example
*Sword* always defaults to Might. In a more freewheeling campaign skills
may be detached from attributes allowing more fluid definition of how
their used. When skills are purchased they don\'t get the benefit of any
default attribute. If using a broad skill list then the typical 7D may
be used. If opting for many more narrowly focused skills then 12D to 18D
may be appropriate.

It is suggested that raising skills with CP should cost double the
normal price for skill advancement. This sounds more costly but isn\'t
because the skills start so much lower.

A sample knight might look like this:

::: {.container .box}
| **Knight:** Might 4D, Agility 3D, Wit 2D, Charm 3D
|         Dodge 1D, History 1D, Ride 2D, Seduce 1D, Sword 2D
:::

When attacking an enemy our knight will typically roll Might + *Sword*
for a total of 6D. Later when attempting to purchase a quality sword in
the market the knight would roll his Wit + *Sword* for a total of 4D.
That evening while practicing his swordsmanship a group of ladies
watches from afar. To impress them he rolls his Charm + *Sword* for a
total of 5D.

### Rolling Limit

Some dislike rolling large numbers of dice, feeling the math slows down
the game. GMs may impose a limit on the number of dice rolled at any
time. We suggest the cut-off be 5 dice. If a character has more than 5D
on a roll, each die beyond the rolling limit is converted to a +3 bonus.
For example a GM has imposed a 5D rolling limit at his table. A
character with 7D+1 in *Rifle* shoots at bad guy. He rolls 5 dice and
adds 7 to the result.

### Halfway There

To help speed up the game, if the number of skill dice in any skill is
equal to half the Target Number, the GM may consider it an automatic
success.

### Traditional OpenD6 Hero Points

In traditional OpenD6, Hero Points work differently. Instead of giving a
static +6 to a roll and allowing for other options such as Flesh Wounds,
etc. they double the number of dice on any single roll. For example a
spy has 4D+1 in *Security* and must disable a bomb. To help ensure
success the player spends 1 HP doubling his roll to 8D+2.

### Traditional OpenD6 Character Points

In traditional OpenD6 Character Points may be spent to improve
individual rolls during play. These points can be spent after the
character has rolled but only before the GM has let the player know if
the roll was successful. Each CP spent grants additional Wild Die to the
roll. The GM may impose a limit on how many CP may be used on a single
roll in his game. Players cannot spend character points to improve a
roll that they also spent a Hero Point on.

### Traditional OpenD6 Might Damage

In traditional OpenD6 the base amount of damage dealt in unarmed and
melee combat is calculated differently. Characters use half their dice
in their *Lift* skill ignoring pips and rounding down the result. For
example, a character with a *Lift* skill of 3D+2 would deal 1D damage in
unarmed combat or 1D+weapon damage when using a melee weapon.

### Buying New Perks

If you have a good reason and the GM agrees you may buy a perk after
play has begun for 10 CP times the standard cost. Some perks make no
sense; you don\'t wake up an elf.

### Buying Off Complications

To get rid of a complication the GM will impose a price of at least 20
CP if he allows it at all and you need a really good story, possibly
even a quest or adventure to justify it. Alternatively, as the story
progresses player and GM might agree to exchange old complications for
new one.

### Body Points (alternative to Wound Levels)

In place of using Wound Levels GMs may elect to use Body Points (BP).
Under this variant, players roll their character\'s Might and add this
to 20. This is the amount of damage they can take before death. If less
variability is desired the GM may give 4 BP per die in Might instead.

**Damage Resistance Under Fast Static Combat:** Under this combat
system, the Static Soak is replaced with Static Damage Resistance (DR).
Static Damage Resistance is equal to the Armor Value of the target. As a
rule of thumb any creature or stock character with no number in
parenthesis next to their Soak has a Damage Resistance of 0; those that
do subtract their Soak from the number in parenthesis and use the
difference. The GM might define special abilities that also grant a
bonus to this total. Hero points can be spent to gain a +6 bonus to DR.

**Damage Resistance Traditional OpenD6 Combat:** The damage resistance
total equals a roll of the target character\'s die codes from armor or
Special Abilities. Hero points can be spent to gain a +6 bonus to DR.

**Taking Damage Under Both Systems:** When a character is hit they
subtract their DR from the damage total. If the remaining total is one
or more it is subtracted from the character\'s current BP total. If
reduced to 0 or fewer BP, the character is dead.

#### Natural Healing

To heal, the character needs complete rest. After resting one full day a
Might check is made and the level of success achieved determines how
many BP are recovered. Healing: BP are recovered as follows:

  **Healing Difficulty**   **BP Recovered**
  ------------------------ ------------------
  Very Easy                2
  Easy                     1D
  Moderate                 2D
  Difficult                3D
  Very Difficult           4D
  Heroic                   5D

#### Assisted Healing (Medicine)

Once per day a character can assist another by making a *Medicine* skill
check. The number of BP healed is based on the level of success achieved
and uses the same chart as the character\'s Might check.

#### Adjusting Deadliness

By increasing or decreasing the base number of BP the lethality of the
game is changed. For extremely cinematic games the GM may allow players
to double the Might total or roll twice and take the higher number.

## Making the Game Your Own

Its possible to sit down and play a game with [Minimal
OpenD6]{.title-ref} on the fly using just what has been provided.
However, the game is much more enjoyable when some advance thought is
put into the world the characters will adventure in. For repeated
campaign style play this is practically a requirement.

### Developing Your Own Setting (or stealing from the Great Ones)

The first thing you need is an idea. If you don\'t already have one try
asking your players what they want to do. Between talking with them and
your own dreams one is likely to form. It might be based off a comic
book, a show on TV, a recent hit movie, or any other source of mass
media. Or it might be invented whole cloth from your imagination. Before
we get all touchy feely and start sharing emotions let\'s crawl out of
your head and get on to the next step.

Now that you have a golden gem of an idea, you need to write down a
short description. Imagine that your audience has never heard of
anything similar before while also limiting yourself to just a couple of
paragraphs at most. Don\'t worry about being Shakespeare, just write
down the way you would explain it to the players. Think of it as the
movie trailer for your setting. If fail to hit the high points no one
will be interested or possibly even understand it. At this point though,
do not bog yourself down in detail.

#### Who are the Characters?

Think about it your game from the players\' perspective. What kind of
characters do they often like to play and what kind of characters do you
see them playing in your game? You will need to be able to explain to
them what kind of characters they can make and how they fit into the
world. This must be followed up by the very important question what do
they do? What kind of adventures will they go on? How can their
characters fit into the adventure easily without you having to invent
the flimsiest of reasons to include them. The easier you make it on them
at this point, the less work it is going to be on you to bring them in
and keep them all together.

Some players get a sadistic joy out of playing against type. You might
be casting a supers team made up of mutants that all work together and
one person who declares himself to be the feral loner. These characters
can complicate things quite a bit. We aren\'t saying not to allow them,
although that is your call. You will need to speak with this player to
make sure you are both on the same page. Maybe the crazy professor that
pulled them together also gave them all radios to stay in constant
communication. If all else fails gently remind them this is a group
oriented game.

#### What are the Rules?

We think we have a pretty good set here with [Minimal
OpenD6]{.title-ref}, but some might call us biased. You might be happy
with the default rules, but maybe you want something a little different.
Okay Mr. Picky, write down which optional rules you are going to use.
Which combat system are you going to use? Hint, hint, we think Static is
Faster, but maybe you\'re a traditionalist at heart. That\'s okay, we
still love you. You might have your own ideas for another magic system
if your game uses that or you decide to run with the Body Points system
instead of Wound Levels.

The optional rules you can use though are not just limited to the
choices we give in this rule book, it includes your own ideas and
editions, those special flourishes that make the game your own. But
whatever you do, be sure to write it down for consistency later and tell
your players before they make characters. It is only the nice thing to
do.

#### What are the Skills?

Start by writing down the attributes in separate columns. Then place the
skills under them that you think will be useful in the game you plan to
run. Some skills may be broader than others depending on how useful they
are in your opinion. For example, in many games there is just a skill
called *Science* which covers Biology, Chemistry, Math, and many more
boring subjects except for Medicine. But, if you are playing a game
where the characters are scientists exploring the galaxy through
stargates, you might need several different, more specific, Science
skills.

#### New Perks or Complications?

This is your chance to help reinforce the game through new racial perks
you make, codes of honor, etc. Players love new stuff. It also serves to
further develop any archetypes you dreamed up.

#### How are Money and Gear Handled?

Most players are going to want to know how much stuff they can get their
hands on. If your game is one where they count their dollars and spend
specific amounts be sure to let them know and even prepare a price list
and basic monetary notation. You might take a more laid back approach
and say that a knight owns armor, a sword, and a horse; while his wizard
companion has a pointed hat, musty books, and a stout walking stick.
However you decide to do this, just try and be consistent and fair.

#### What are You Going to do When You Run Out of Ideas?

Well, you\'re having ideas right now, so start writing these adventures
seeds and save them for a rainy day. Just a paragraph or two is all you
need to do. It will help keep it in your mind and when you are too busy
with life or suffering from writer\'s block these morsels will be
sitting there on your plate. A handy formula is a basic scenario plus
one complication. Now have at it!

## Campaigning the TV Way

Think of the campaign as a television series. You can "cast" the
characters and NPCs from celebrities instead of describing what your
character looks like just name the actor that plays him. Keep in mind
how dramatic and action oriented shows are structured. They have plot
arcs that stretch many "episodes" and there is always a season finale.
After the season is over take a break from that game and play something
else. Even if everyone wants to dive back into it immediately take at
least a short break. Run a game in a different setting, break out that
\$100 board game you bought, whatever. Think of this time off as a
palette cleanser. And when the game is started again that\'s a new
season and everyone will be looking forward to it.

One of the fun things about this style of play is the ability to use
cinematic techniques like a director does. If your players enjoy this
style there are some tricks to further spice things up. Research is
easy, plop down in front of your favorite show and start watching,
making mental notes about the things you like. With practice you could
run a game like a Tarantino flick.

### Flash Forwards

Write down a few vague lines of dialogue on index cards and number them.
Then hand them out but don\'t let your players look at them until their
number comes up. The player with card number one reads their line, then
two responds by reading his, and so on. You don\'t want to give the plot
away or make anything too specific; it is more to tease them. Keep in
mind that at some point they should catch up to the flash forward and
will hopefully cooperate with what has already been established. This
might be in the same session, or several later depending on how you plan
the campaign.

A second flash forward technique would start the adventure at some
dramatic point between the middle and end of the episode. By describing
what the characters are doing, how they look, and where they are, you
can surprise them. Keep in mind though not to give too much away or nail
down so many details they have no say in the path that brought them to
this point. The characters should still have free will. For example, at
the beginning of the session the GM narrates, "The three of you are
standing before a pillar made of human skulls. Baelendor seems to have
lost his lost his old armor; all the troupe\'s provisions are also
missing. You are hot, tired, and bloody\..." at some point one of the
players will challenge how they got there. Then the GM says, "Two days
previously\..." and then start the adventure from the beginning. With
luck they will eventually stand in that moment and the players will
enjoy returning to that point in the story.

When using flash forwards don\'t take away the players\' free will. If
they don\'t end up where the flash forward happened, that must have been
some alternative future. If the players won\'t let go of their metagame
knowledge of the flash forward don\'t use them again.

### Flash Backs

Another popular TV device is looking into the past. During the game
it\'s possible to run an adventure from before the first episode. You
will have to give some thought to how powerful the characters should be
at that point in their development and it should tie to the current
storyline. Some players may grumble that they earned skills they can\'t
use because the character doesn\'t know them yet. Tell them to stop
whining and remind them that they can still use the points they earned
from the past they just played through on those skills they couldn\'t
use. Of course if your players don\'t enjoy these occasional forays then
don\'t use them. Because even if you enjoy them, you will not enjoy five
people whining for three hours.

## Converting Between Minimal OpenD6 & Traditional OpenD6

Even though [Minimal OpenD6]{.title-ref} is part of the OpenD6 family,
it has been tweaked in several ways. By making the following changes and
applying the noted optional rules you can make [Minimal
OpenD6]{.title-ref} resemble its more recognized parent.

### Character Creation

Player characters start with six attributes and distribute 18D among
them. There are three common sets of attributes depending on the genre
played. The following chart may help convert characters between the
systems. Once dice have been distributed check your math. If you have
more than 18D in traditional OpenD6, or 12D in [Minimal
OpenD6]{.title-ref}, adjust for balance using common sense. If you have
too few dice spent, then spend the remaining dice as best fits the
character concept.

```{=ms}
.KS
.nr old_PS \n[PS]
.nr PS 8p
.nr old_VS \n[VS]
.nr VS 9.5p
```
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------
  **Minimal OpenD6**   **OpenD6**     **OpenD6**         **OpenD6**
  **Equivalent**       **Fantasy**    **Adventure**      **Sci-Fi**
  -------------------- -------------- ------------------ --------------
  Might                Physique       Physique           Strength

  Agility              Agility        Reflexes           Dexterity

  Agility              Coordination   Coordination       

  Wit                  Intellect      Knowledge          Knowledge

  Charm                Charm          Presence           

  (Wit+Charm)/2        Acumen         Perception         Perception

  (Agility+Wit)/2                                        Mechanical

  Wit                                                    Technical
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------

```{=ms}
.nr PS \n[old_PS]u
.nr VS \n[old_VS]u
.KE
```
Skills may move to new attributes. Simply review the skill list provided
by the GM and note accordingly.

### Extranormal Skills

OpenD6 Fantasy has *Miracles* and *Magic*. OpenD6 Adventure has *Magic*
and *Psionics*. OpenD6 Science Fiction has *Channel*, *Sense*, and
*Transform*. All of these are considered Paranormal Abilities that use
the Quasi Skills optional rule.

### The Wild Die

When a 1 is rolled on the Wild Die in traditional OpenD6 it can have
three possible effects based on GM fiat:

1.  It can be treated normally and added to the roll.
2.  It is ignored along with the highest normal die rolled.
3.  It causes a complication to the action taken.

```{=ms}
.bp
```
### Options Used by Traditional OpenD6

-   Traditional OpenD6 Combat
-   Traditional OpenD6 Hero Points
-   Traditional OpenD6 Character Points
-   Traditional OpenD6 Might Damage
-   Perks are called Advantages
-   Complications are called Disadvantages

```{=ms}
.bp
```
## Sample Settings

### Perdition: Tales of Damned Fool Heroes

::: {.container .box}
"Your great-grandpa\'s great-grandpa came here in a big ship. It was so
big that whole cities of people were inside. Here was so far away from
Earth that everyone slept the whole way. They turned the ships into
factories on the nicest worlds, and but nobody else ever came from
Earth. Maybe they went to another system. Strange that we never heard
anything. The first worlds filled up and they changed the ones that
weren\'t so nice, the frontier worlds like ours, into better ones so
that we could live here too. Folk being as they are, they fell to
squabblin\' soon enough. The First Worlds have it easy compared to us
frontiersmen, but we\'ve got something they\'ll never understand. You
can\'t put it in a box, or put it in a book, or put a price on it even
if they did win the war. It\'s still ours." -- Old man to his grandson
:::

Humanity came to Vega because of war, pollution, limited resources, and
overpopulation. The pioneers travelled the 25 light years in cryonic
sleep on a voyage that took over 300 years. When they arrived they
founded a new civilization, called the League, which is parliamentary in
nature. As more worlds are colonized, the power of the League grew, but
rifts began to develop between the older heavily industrialized worlds
and the younger thinly populated frontier worlds of Lantos and Leton.

The war lasted for six years, and hundreds of thousands died in battles
both on the ground and in space. The frontier rebels were eventually
defeated and Lantos and Leton rejoined the League, although their voices
are weak in parliament.

The player characters of Perdition take the roles of scavengers,
honorable scoundrels, and thieves with conscience. They share a dislike,
possibly even a hatred for the League, but they\'re not part of a rebel
military. Those days are gone forever. They\'re not terrorists or
single-minded lunatics bent on revenge. They operate outside of League
law, but they\'re not sociopaths. They will defend themselves, their
friends, and their families, but they aren\'t murderers or pirates.
They\'re people out on the edge of a frontier. They rob banks, they
steal stuff, they swindle League stooges, they smuggle contraband, they
raid League outposts, and above all else, they get paid.

But they don\'t steal from the poor. They don\'t extort the virtuous.
They always keep their word. They don\'t kill the innocent or leave them
to die, \'cause deep down they\'re damned fool heroes.

#### Character Creation Guidelines

Higher Attributes at a Price, up to 5D (See [Higher Attributes at a
Price](#higher-attributes-at-a-price)).

##### Skill List

-   **Might:** Brawling, Melee Weapons, Lift, Stamina
-   **Agility:** Athletics, BFG, Bow, Dodge, Drive, Pickpocket, Pilot,
    Pistol, Rifle, Stealth, Throwing
-   **Wit:** Computer, History, Language, Medicine, Navigation, Repair,
    Science, Security, Tracking
-   **Charm:** Command, Diplomacy, Persuasion, Riding, Seduce,
    Streetwise

##### New Complications

**Bull in a China Shop:** The character is a klutz. Choose one Agility
skill that the character can use without penalty. Increase the
difficulty of all other Agility rolls by +5. *Dodge* skill isn\'t
penalized. Earn one bonus CP each session.

**Damned Fool Hero:** The character follows the code of Robin Hood as
described previously. (Except for the giving to the needy part. A
Hero\'s got to eat.) This is really just a Personal Code, so earn one CP
whenever acting like a Damned Fool Hero complicates your life. (It\'s
suggested that most of the player characters in the game have this
complication, if not all.)

**Not Pretty Cunning:** The character is uncouth and or unattractive.
Choose one Charm skill that the character can use without penalty.
Increase the difficulty of all other Charm skill rolls by +5. Earn one
bonus CP each session.

**No Book Learning:** The character didn\'t benefit from a League
education. Choose one Wit skill that the character can use without
penalty. Increase the difficulty of all other Wit skill rolls by +5.
Earn one bonus CP each session.

**Weak:** The character is less powerful than his build would imply.
Choose one Might skill that the character can use without penalty.
Increase the difficulty of all other Might skill rolls by +5. Resisting
damage and healing checks aren\'t penalized. Earn one bonus CP each
session.

#### Advice for the GM

Perdition is a space-western. There are no ray guns, no aliens, no
faster-than-light travel, and no artificial intelligences. The miracle
technologies available are limited to spaceships, artificial gravity
inside spaceships, terraforming, and cryonic sleep -- but the latter has
few applications in the Worlds of Vega nowadays.

The industrialized worlds are little different from modern day Earth
aside from these miracle techs. The League is strong there, but there
are good folk on every world.

The frontier worlds are rougher and more homespun. People have had to be
self sufficient to survive and there\'s little to no infrastructure in
most places. That means that horses are often more reliable than cars
and trucks. (You can grow and feed horses locally, but you have to
import complex machines and fuel.) Justice tends to be more about the
spirit of the law than the letter, but most folks can only expect
whatever justice they create.

##### The Paranormal

Psychics are rare, and most educated people don\'t believe they exist.
For every real psychic, there are a hundred charlatans conning people
out of their money. No other special abilities are known to exist aside
from ESP.

##### Adventure Seeds

**The Eosian Job:** Another gang wants to team up to rob the Safety
Society Bank on Eos, which handles the payroll for nearby Fort
Temperance. The leader of the gang suspects that one of his crew is a
traitor after finding a League transmitting device, and wants the heroes
to figure out who it is.

**Strange Bedfellows:** The town of Baggs on Silenus asks for help
against a cult who follow a supposed psychic. The leader of the gang is
also wanted by the League for her crimes. The problem is that she\'s the
eighteen year old daughter of a League minister.

##### The Worlds of the Vega System

There are eleven true planets and another 78 moons in the Vega system.
Of those, one planet is inhabited and three additional planets host a
total of 37 moons that have been terraformed to human tolerance.

Vega is a blue star, much larger and hotter than Earth\'s sun. It has
four small, rocky inner planets, and seven outer gas giants. Inside the
orbit of the innermost three planets (Pallas, Perses, and Asteria) is
the Typhon Asteroid Belt, which is usually just called the Belt by
veteran spacers. Mining outfits large and small work the rocks for
silver, gold, and other precious ores.

```{=ms}
.KS
```
#### Standard Travel Times

```{=ms}
.nr old_PS \n[PS]
.nr PS 8p
.nr old_VS \n[VS]
.nr VS 9.5p
```
  ----------------------------------------------------------------
  **From**             **To**               **Time**
  -------------------- -------------------- ----------------------
  Nomos                Belt                 1D6 + 1 Days

  Nomos or Belt        Ophion Worlds        1 Week + 1D6 Days

  Nomos or Belt        Lelantosian Worlds   2 Weeks + 1D6 Days

  Nomos or Belt        Leton Worlds         3 Weeks + 1D6 Days

  Ophion Worlds        Ophion Worlds        1D6 Weeks

  Ophion Worlds        Lelantosian Worlds   1 Week + 2D6 Days

  Ophion Worlds        Leton Worlds         2 Weeks + 2D6 Days

  Lelantosian Worlds   Lelantosian Worlds   1D6 Days

  Lelantosian Worlds   Leton Worlds         1 Week + 3D6 Days

  Leton Worlds         Leton Worlds         1D6 Days
  ----------------------------------------------------------------

```{=ms}
.nr PS \n[old_PS]u
.nr VS \n[old_VS]u
.KE
```
##### Navigation Bonus

A pilot or another crewman can try to speed up the journey by making a
special check. Roll the character\'s *Navigation* skill plus the Move of
the vessel. Compare the result to the following:

| 10 or less: 200% Standard Time
| 11--20: Standard Time
| 21--40: 90% of Standard Time
| 41+: 75% of Standard Time

##### A Mechanic\'s Work is Never Done

Someone must spend time keeping every ship running. For small ships
(scale +6D or less), a mechanic must make a repair roll with a TN equal
to the 1⁄2 the trip\'s standard travel time (in days) + 10. This check
is made at the midway point of the voyage. If he fails the check, roll
on the vehicle damage chart to see what\'s broke.

#### Scarab Class Transport

| **Cost:** \$\$\$\$
| **Scale:** +6D
| **Skill:** Pilot
| **Body:** 3D+1
| **MNV:** 2D
| **Move:** 3D
| **Crew:** 2
| **Psg:** 12
| **Weapons:** None
| **Cargo:** 2 Shuttles + 100 Tons
| **Shuttle:** \$\$\$, Scale +4D, Skill: Pilot, MNV: 1D, Body: 2D+2,
  Move: 2D, Crew 1, Psg: 6, Cargo: 2 Tons

The Scarab is an older generation of ship but well loved for its
reliability and ruggedness. Its hold is adaptable to suit many types of
cargo or can be converted for additional passenger berths.

#### Character Templates

##### Space Cowboy

*I might be aiming to raise a ruckus.*

| **Might: 3D** --- Brawling 4D
| **Agility: 3D+1** --- Dodge 5D+1, Pistol 5D+1
| **Wit: 2D+1**
| **Charm: 3D+1** --- Bluff 4D+1, Command 4D+1
| **Static:** Dodge 16, Block 12, Parry 9, Soak 9
| **Perks & Comps:** None
| **Gear:** Pistol

##### First Mate

*Captain your plan is, well, not good.*

| **Might: 3D** --- Brawling 4D
| **Agility: 3D** --- Dodge 5D, Rifle 5D
| **Wit: 3D+1**
| **Charm: 2D+2** --- Streetwise 4D+2
| **Static:** Dodge 15, Block 12, Parry 9, Soak 9
| **Perks & Comps:** None
| **Gear:** Shotgun

##### City Slicker Doc

*Could you be any cruder? I doubt it.*

| **Might: 2D**
| **Agility: 3D** --- Dodge 4D, Stealth 4D
| **Wit: 4D** --- Computer 5D, Medicine 6D, Science 5D
| **Charm: 4D** --- Diplomacy 4D
| **Static:** Dodge 12, Block 6, Parry 6, Soak 6
| **Perks & Comps:** None
| **Gear:** Medical Bag, Pocket Computer

##### Pilot

*Watch how I soar!*

| **Might: 2D+1**
| **Agility: 3D+2** --- Dodge 5D+1, Pilot 5D+2
| **Wit: 3D+1** --- Computer 4D, Navigation 5D+1, Repair 4D+1
| **Charm: 2D+2** --- Diplomacy 4D
| **Static:** Dodge 16, Block 7, Parry 7, Soak 7
| **Perks & Comps:** None
| **Gear:** Light Pistol

##### Mechanic

*What did you call our ship?!*

| **Might: 2D+1**
| **Agility: 3D+2** --- Dodge 5D+1, Pilot 5D+2
| **Wit: 3D+1** --- Computer 4D, Navigation 5D+1, Repair 4D+1
| **Charm: 2D+2** --- Diplomacy 4D
| **Static:** Dodge 16, Block 7, Parry 7, Soak 7
| **Perks & Comps:** None
| **Gear:** Light Pistol

##### Brute

*I get 10% AND my own bunk?!*

| **Might: 5D** --- Brawling 5D+1
| **Agility: 2D+2** --- BFG 4D+2, Dodge 4D+1, Rifle 4D+2, Throwing 3D+2
| **Wit: 1D+2**
| **Charm: 2D+2**
| **Perks & Comps:** None
| **Static:** Dodge 13, Block 16, Parry 15, Soak 15
| **Gear:** BFG ("I call \'er Betty. She\'s the only lady I trust."),
  rifle, knife

##### Outlaw Preacher

*The Good Book\'s vague on kneecaping.*

| **Might: 3D** --- Brawling 5D
| **Agility: 3D** --- Dodge 5D, Rifle 4D
| **Wit: 1D+2** --- History 4D
| **Charm: 2D+2** --- Persuasion 4D
| **Static:** Dodge 15, Block 15, Parry 9, Soak 9
| **Perks & Comps:** Age, Skeletons in the closet.
| **Gear:** Holy Book

##### Noble

*We\'re all running from something.*

| **Might: 1D+2**
| **Agility: 3D** --- Bow 4D, Dodge 4D
| **Wit: 3D+1**
| **Charm: 4D** --- Diplomacy 5D, Persuasion 5D, Seduce 6D
| **Static:** Dodge 12, Block 5, Parry 9, Soak 5
| **Perks & Comps:** Attractive
| **Gear:** Fancy clothes, jewelry, bow.

##### Psychic

*Lost my happy thought, can I have yours?*

| **Might: 2D**
| **Agility: 3D+2** --- Athletics 4D+2, Dodge 5D+2
| **Wit: 3D+1**
| **Charm: 4D**
| **Static:** Dodge 17, Block 6, Parry 6, Soak 6
| **Perks & Comps:** ESP, Crazy
| **Gear:**

```{=ms}
.bp
```
### Rust Moon of Castia

::: {.container .box}
They say the moon turned red when the Radiant Queen was born. Sages
across the land studied the portent\'s meaning, but the skalds of
Kauleshan knew that destiny was on their side. As she grew she united
the northern tribes into a mighty force. Still this did not sate her
thirst for power. She turned her covetous eye to the ancient throne of
Castia. The war was harsh and swift. In the end only the four Elons
stood against her horde but even they could not hold out in the face of
her magic. In plundering our libraries she uncovered the Prophecy of the
Marks of Radiance. Now she is obsessed with hunting our daughters. Her
ambition is now twisted with her lust for eternal life. Now that we have
learned to hide the vessel children things have gotten worse for the
people. Rumors claim she has begun to grow old, she has grown desperate.
--- Mardegant the Wise, Secret Sage of Etain.
:::

Castia was once a proud kingdom, its boundaries stretching from the
Northern Forest south to the farmlands surrounding Lake Tarsis and east
to the Teerna Sea. Legends claim that for centuries it was ruled by a
line of wise kings who sought only safety for their subjects and peace
with their neighbors. Bards still sing of this golden age, reminding all
of what life was like in a land of joy deep in their memories. Because
memories seldom whisper of anything other than beauty when waking eyes
see only the mark of evil upon the land.

Dark times fell across the land when the moon turned red. Each night
when the Rusting Eye passed over, strife would spread by leagues. Sydra
and Nehar began to bite at the borders while the Syndics of Westron
encroached on the forest. When raiders of Kauleshan invaded, none saw
the true threat offered by the ill-organized barbarians. Only after the
Scarlet Horde stood at the gates of Devmora did the king see the fate
awaiting him. It took only three more summers for the once proud kingdom
to fall. During the plundering of Etain the new royal\'s sages unearthed
the Prophecy of the Marks of Radiance. Few speak of it openly but all
well travelled folk now know how it reads,

> "*Into each generation there will be born 13 daughters, one for each
> moon that passes over the sky. They share a common mark, a common
> spirit. From each the Radiant Light may burn, into each the Radiant
> Light may flow. May this Immortal Dynast guide us wisely, for guide us
> she will as long her line remains unbroken.*"

**Devmora:** once a prosperous trade city, the Scarlet Horde seized it
for their dark mistress. The Radiant Queen claimed the town as her own.
In the hundred years since she claimed the throne, the Radiant Queen has
transformed the city into a mighty, many tiered and sectioned, fortress.
The various city quarters all divided into compact wards. Great walls
and loyal fanatics ensure their queen is safe from the outside world she
chooses to rule so harshly.

**Kauleshan:** the name of both the greatest northern city and the
barbarian lands surrounding it. It is a brooding, cold land filled with
harsh myths, dark cults, and berserker warriors. Not all of the northern
clans joined the Radiant Queen\'s cause. Those who resisted were cursed
or publicly put to death. Still some clans chose exile or retreat into
more remote places instead of surrendering their freedom for her
promises of glory.

**Etain:** Once the capital of Castia, it still bears the scars of the
savage plundering inflicted upon it. Here the Radiant Queen struck
hardest of all cities that still have life in them. After a hundred
years many citizens of Etain still look hollow, carrying a broken spirit
for the horrors they are always reminded of.

**Engalt:** The largest Hannedyn population near the Castian Realms, it
is their common city ruled by a council of elders and a High Judge
chosen from among the council to barter treaties with the larger lands
of humans. The larger folk seldom take the smaller ones seriously, and
even in their own towns and villages the phrase "Out of the way Speck!"
can easily be heard. Few humans give the smaller race\'s great city much
thought, but within its stunted rooms and narrow alleys many secrets
still linger.

**Tarsis Elon:** The last of the four fortresses to fall, it suffered
the worst of the four curses. All who once lived there are now encased
in translucent stone, alive but entombed. For each year that passes in
the outside world, these poor souls age a single day. If any are
chiseled free time comes rushing upon them bringing immediate death by
old age. Still, more than a curse was left to watch Tarsis. Monsters,
minions, and shadows without name haunt this doomed sanctuary. Rumors
abound about what is still kept here. Some claim a great vault filled
with gold, others speak of lost magics. Even if only a cache of ancient
weapons, it would be a great fortune to those foolhardy enough to try
and claim them.

#### Character Creation Guidelines

##### Skill List

-   **Might:** Axe/Mace, Brawling, Knife, Lift, Smithing, Stamina, Pole
    Arm, Sword
-   **Agility:** Athletics, Bow, Dodge, Pickpocket, Stealth, Throwing
-   **Wit:** Crafts, Lore, Magic, Medicine, Pick Locks, Search, Tracking
-   **Charm:** Command, Diplomacy, Persuasion, Riding, Seduce,
    Streetwise

##### New Perks

**Brownie (4):** A small race standing only 12 to 15 inches tall. They
normally live apart from humans, preferring the deep woodlands and
hills. Only rarely do they meddle in the affairs of men. Brownies
naturally speak with animals and birds while their tiny size gives them
a bonus to *Stealth* (+2D) and *Dodge* (+2D) when fighting creatures
man-sized or bigger. Unfortunately it also hinders them with the Tiny
complication. The Brownie\'s maximum Might is limited to 3D while
Agility may be up to 5D.

**Hannedyn (2):** A short race standing half the size of men, they live
in Engelt and the surrounding region. Humans tend to call them by their
slang name Halfling or the popular insult Speck. While not technically
subjects of the Castian throne they do pay tribute in exchange for
continued peace.

Their small stature grants a bonus to *Stealth* (+1D) and *Dodge* (+1D)
when fighting creatures man-sized or larger. All Hannedyn must take the
Small complication while their Might is limited to 3D+1.

##### New Complications

**Small:** This is a Racial Complication. Player Characters gain this
only by the associated racial perk. Small characters receive a −5
penalty on all Might skill checks, Might based damage rolls, Block, and
Parry. This penalty doesn\'t apply to *Stamina*, healing, and resisting
damage. This penalty doesn\'t apply when fighting a Small or Tiny
creature. Earn 1 bonus CP each session.

**Tiny:** This is a Racial Complication. Player Characters gain this
only by the associated racial perk. Tiny characters receive a −10
penalty on all Might skill checks, Might based damage rolls, Block, and
Parry. This penalty doesn\'t apply to *Stamina*, healing, and resisting
damage. This penalty doesn\'t apply when fighting another Tiny creature.
Earn 1 bonus CP each session.

**Vessel:** Available only to female characters. You were born with the
Mark of Radiance. The Radiant Queen will hunt you all your days. Earn 1
bonus CP per session when you face her minions.

##### Gear for Brownies and Hanedyn

Any item can be made for tiny or small characters. The statistics are
the same as their normal sized counterparts. Simply apply the Tiny or
Small penalty as appropriate. Characters that try to use items too big
for their size suffer double normal penalties.

#### Advice for the GM

Rust Moon of Castia is classic fantasy adventure; a world of heroes and
adventurers fighting for fortune and glory under the dangerous gaze of
an evil overlord and bickering nations. They can be heroes, mercenaries
for hire, or free wheeling adventurers just trying to find the next lost
treasure horde. It is always best to work with players when deciding on
what kind of fantasy campaign to run because tastes can vary wildly.

##### Adventure Seeds

**The Golden Key:** The player characters have found the key to the
Vault of Lorna Fields. Legends tell of a hidden treasure horde to the
east of Lorna Elon. When the key is held at the Crossroads under the
light of the full moon the entrance will be revealed. Some legends speak
of great wealth; others though make it less glamorous. Whispering of
dark monsters held fast until the ancient line of kings would offer
mercy and freedom if the beasts accepted a geas. Those still held
refused such a punishment.

**Down the Fairie Ring:** While travelling through the deep forest the
player characters stumble into a Fairie Ring. These magical doorways are
normally closed, but sadly this fairie keep has fallen under a curse and
now they seek to bring others into their madness. The players must find
their way out or break the curse before madness captures them as well.

#### Character Templates

##### Mad Mercenary

*Your leg? I would love to break it.*

| **Might: 3D+2** --- Athletics 4D+1, Brawling 4D+2, Sword 5D+2
| **Agility: 3D+1** --- Dodge 5D+1, Riding 4D
| **Wit: 2D**
| **Charm: 3D**
| **Static:** Dodge 16, Block 14, Parry 17, Soak 11(17)
| **Perks & Comps:** None
| **Gear:** Chain mail (+6), horse, and long sword.

##### Hannedyn Apprentice

*My finger is more powerful than you know.*

| **Might: 2D**
| **Agility: 3D** --- Dodge 4D
| **Wit: 4D** --- Magic 5D
| **Charm: 3D**
| **Static:** Dodge 12 (15), Block 6, Parry 6, Soak 6
| **Perks & Comps:** Hannedyn, Small, Sorcerer
| **Spells:** Choose 2 spells.
| **Gear:** Spell book and walking stick.

##### Warrior Maiden

*Did my beauty or my axe strike you helpless?*

| **Might: 3D** --- Axe/Mace 5D
| **Agility: 3D+2** --- Dodge 5D+2
| **Wit: 2D** --- Lore 3D
| **Charm: 3D+1** --- Command 4D+1
| **Static:** Dodge 17, Block 9, Parry 15, Soak 9(21)
| **Perks & Comps:** Attractive, Vessel.
| **Gear:** Axe, chain mail (+6), shield (+4).

##### Brownie Scout

*This way! No... That way!*

| **Might: 2D**
| **Agility: 5D** --- Bow 6D
| **Wit: 2D+1** --- Tracking 4D+1
| **Charm: 2D+2**
| **Static:** Dodge 15 (21), Block 6, Parry 6, Soak 6
| **Perks & Comps:** Brownie, Tiny
| **Gear:** Brownie bow and ugly hat.

#### Bestiary

##### Arnax

*Leviathan of terror.*

| Potency: \*\*\*\*\*, Scale: +4D
| Might: 3D+1, Agility: 2D+2, Wit: 1D+2, Charm: 2D
| Skills: Brawling 6D, Breath Attack 6D Attacks: Bite (character scale,
  7D)
| Breath Fire (5D, range 30 ft)
| Perks: Two Heads (makes 2 bites with no penalty)
| Static: Dodge 10, Block 19, Parry 16, Soak 16

##### Fairie

*Tinkling lights in the forest.*

| Potency: \*, Scale: 0D
| Might: 1D+1, Agility: 5D+2, Wit: 2D, Charm: 3D
| Skills: Bow 6D+2, Dodge 8D+2, Stealth 8D+2
| Perks: ESP, Faint Glow (like a candle), Fly (60 ft/round), Mute, Tiny
| Static: Dodge 26, Block 4, Parry 4, Soak 4
| Gear: Fairie Bow, Fairie Dust

##### Troll Ape

*Smells worse than it looks.*

| Potency: \*\*\*, Scale: 0D
| Might: 5D+1, Agility: 3D+1 Wit: 1D+1, Charm: 1D
| Skills: Athletics 4D+1, Brawling 6D+1, Tracking 4D+1
| Perks: Regeneration, Scale any Surface
| Static: Dodge 10, Block 19, Parry 16, Soak 16
| Gear: None

```{=ms}
.bp
```
### Imperium in Revolt

::: {.container .box}
It is a dark time across the galaxy. Forces of the Grand Imperium have
crushed the last vestiges of the once great Galactic Commonwealth. As
tyranny spreads a few brave and desperate souls have dared to stand
against the Sovereign\'s power. Rebels attempting to show the galaxy
that freedom can be claimed if people are willing to stand up for what
they believe in. The future is uncertain, but it will be forged by the
spirit of heroes.
:::

Player characters take the role of rebels, smugglers, knights, and
others who stand against the Imperium. They are fighting for freedom;
even if only their own.

For 5,000 years the Galactic Commonwealth grew, stretching across the
galaxy. Starting from the Founding Systems who mastered the secrets of
hyperspace travel, they explored and expanded bringing thousands of
races together under a common banner of prosperity. What felt like an
eternity of good fortune bred its own peculiar evil. At first none
noticed the corruption taking seed in the honored halls of galactic
power.

Factions formed in the Senate, each coveting what others had amassed.
Many senators viewed the systems they represented more as personal
fiefdoms than states within the galactic body. Bickering replaced
diplomacy. Trade blockades and strikes were common threats. The Senate
was paralyzed. Systems starved as trade stagnated denying them goods
they needed for survival.

The Galactic Navy, reduced in strength after so long a peace, was
ordered to act as a barrier between individual system Militia Fleets but
the military power was not up to the task. Skirmishes erupted between
factions. The final blow came when the President of the Senate was
murdered in the Grand Hall by rivals who feared his measured words.

It was the Taurani senator who took center stage in the ensuing madness.
Gathering the still loyal factions of the Commonwealth together,
convincing them to merge individual Militia Fleets with the Galactic
Navy. Factories producing critical goods were seized by the government
to save dying worlds. Blockades were shattered and trade forcefully
reestablished. Media was silenced to protect galactic security as order
was restored.

In only a dozen years the senator concentrated enough power to declare
himself Sovereign. At his fiery self-coronation the new dictator
promised a new golden age in a Grand Imperium. Yet not all hope was
lost.

#### Character Creation Guidelines

Characters may purchase the Sorcerer perk. The Star Paladins section
explains how magic is treated in the game universe and the complications
related to selecting it.

##### Skill List

-   **Might:** Athletics, Brawling, Lift, Melee, Plasma Sword, Stamina,
    Swimming
-   **Agility:** BFG, Dodge, Drive, Pilot, Pistol, Rifle, Stealth,
    Throwing
-   **Wit:** Computers/Androids, Cultures, Demolitions, Gunnery,
    Languages, History, Magic, Medicine, Navigation, Repair, Science,
    Search, Security, Star Systems, Tracking
-   **Charm:** Command, Courage, Diplomacy, Gambling, Seduce, Streetwise

##### New Perks

**Alien Races (varies):** Sample aliens provided include Avari, Kaishee,
and Telmek but GMs are encouraged to create additional alien races to
further flesh out the many races found within the Imperium. Just be
reasonable and cautious when determining how much a race should cost (if
anything) as a perk.

**Avari (1):** Natives of Varos, the Avari stand only 5 to 5½ feet and
have an oddly uniform appearance. Their hair is always white and their
complexion is a dusk-toned pale gray. Avari have the ability to
compartmentalize their mind. If using only Wit skills, they can take two
actions with no multi-action penalty; but their Might is limited to 3D.

**Cyborg (2):** A significant portion of your body has been replaced
with artificial components. You require half the sustenance others need
and can override electronic pain receptors. You suffer 1D less wound
penalties than others when injured to Wounded or worse. However the TN
of all healing rolls is increased by +5.

**Kaishee (1):** Indigenous to the Kalavel system. Kaishee are a large
hairless people. They stand a full foot taller than the average human.
Kaishee skin tones range from a deep golden bronze to a faint pale
orange while their eyes are a single solid color with black and deep
green being most common. Kaishee have an intuitive understanding of
spatial relationships that gives them a +2 bonus on *Navigation*,
*Search* and *Tracking*. Their eyes also provide them with natural light
amplification and filtering reducing all penalties for darkness by half.
Kaishee have a maximum Might of 5D but their maximum Wit is 3D and their
maximum Agility is 3D+1.

**Telmek (2):** Natives of Telmera, they have a build similar to humans
but with decidedly reptilian features. Their skin is a tough serpent
hide and their hair is both thick and slick. Primarily carnivores, their
teeth are composed mainly of incisors which unsettles many humans when
they choose to smile. Telmek metabolic and mental cycles allow them to
function with only four to five hours sleep per night. Because of their
tough skin Telmek receive a +2 armor bonus.

##### New Complications

**Hunted:** All rebels are sought by the Imperium, but some are more
sought after than others. This is most often found among the Star
Paladins and those who studied their ways. The Imperium has a standing
bounty of 10,000 credits for information leading to the capture of any
Star Paladin. Some paladins have additional bounties attached to them.
Hunted characters receive an additional CP when this becomes an active
issue in the adventure.

**Large Debt:** You owe someone a lot. Maybe one of your deals went bad,
maybe you borrowed to buy that ship you always wanted. No matter how it
came about you are in debt. Most of your spare money is going to go to
pay this off and whoever you owe will likely call on you from time to
time to perform extra favors for them as a "friendly" form of interest.
Gain 1 CP for any adventure where your debtor gets involved in your
business.

**Total Pacifist:** This complication is frequently hard programmed into
civilian androids to keep them from turning on their masters.

#### Order of the Star Paladins

Since the first days of the Commonwealth the Star Paladins acted as
defenders of the peace; traveling across the galaxy offering aid to any
in need. Possessing mystical powers that seemingly defy science, they
were viewed with both reverence and a small amount of fear. With the
power at their command temptation to wickedness was always a danger. To
combat this, the masters who founded the order developed a code all
paladins must abide by. Over time it was distilled down to four simple
statements:

> | Justice tempered by mercy.
> | Passion tempered by virtue.
> | Honor tempered by humility.
> | Knowledge tempered by Wisdom.

Because Rogue Paladins were always a danger, the order formed a special
faction called the Shadow Guard. They were charged with watching for
signs of paladins that might fall to evil and either counsel them back
to the path of honor or bring them to the High Council for judgment.

A young master was given leadership of the Shadow Guard when the
Sovereign was rising to power. Unknown to the High Council, this master
had sworn allegiance to the Sovereign. His position let him keep the
Star Paladins blind to the Sovereign\'s ultimate goal until it was too
late. On Coronation Day, the ancient order was outlawed. The Shadow
Guard became the Inquisition and now hunt for their former brothers in
arms.

#### Using Magic in the Imperium

In the universe of the Imperium there is a supernatural force at work.
Characters with the perk Sorcerer can access this power. Not all spells
listed in the magic section are appropriate though. By selecting the
spells allowed the GM's helps reinforce the way magic works in their
universe. It is suggested that Star Paladins select from the following:
*Beast Tongue*, *Bless*, *Charm*, *Curse*, *Dark Vision*, *Death Spell*,
*Dispel Magic*, *Divination*, *ESP*, *Levitate* (see Fly), *Hasten*,
*Illusions*, *Paralysis*, *Resist Elements*, *See Magic Aura*,
*Slumber*, *Still Mind*, and *Telekinesis*.

Additional powers can also be created to help showcase the unique powers
of the Star Paladins. For Example:

##### Sense Danger

TN: 19, Duration: Concentration, Range: Self, Resisted: None

The caster attunes himself to any threats within 60 feet. This gives a
+2D bonus to dodge, parry and block. The Paladin may also use his plasma
sword to parry ranged attacks.

#### The Galaxy

The Imperium stretches from the Founding Systems to the most distant
arms of the galaxy. Thousands of inhabited worlds and countless more
colonies fall under its sphere of authority. Still space is vast and the
number of planets with life on them is seemingly endless. New worlds in
remote locations are still found. Sometimes Rebel Command is able to
work out treaties and use them as secret bases. Other times Imperium
scouts discover the world and log it in detail for later inclusion and
harvesting.

Because of the Imperium\'s strength, few systems dare openly fly the
Rebel banner. Still, some planets have chosen to take that desperate
stand even in the face of harsh marshal law. What follows are a few of
the systems that have taken a stand in the civil war.

**Ajada:** One of the old Commonwealth\'s Founding Systems. They
suffered greatly during the collapse of the old government and greatly
benefited from the Sovereign\'s ascension. This makes them extremely
loyal. Many of the finest officers in the Galactic Navy hail from Ajada.
Its system is also the location of the largest Imperium shipyards.

**Kalavel:** Homeworld of the Kaishee, it was a system full of great
natural resources, it was also the first to rebel against the Imperium.
The Navy struck at them hard and fast. Many of the natives were forced
into slavery as punishment for rebellion and the once lush world is now
a blasted shell of its former self.

**Petrion:** This system holds the seat of galactic power. Once home to
the Grand Hall of the Senate, it now acts as host to the Sovereign\'s
throne. A planet of bureaucrats and royal sycophants, it\'s extremely
dangerous to be a rebel sympathizer here.

**Tauran:** For millennia the noble houses of this Founding System were
little more than figureheads. How the Sovereign converted an ancient
honorific into a powerbase is unknown, but many Taurani hold their heads
in shame at the terror they let loose from their world in a moment of
weakness. Many in the Rebel Command claim Taurani heritage.

##### Hyperdrive Technology

Uniting the Founding Systems and creating galactic trade, the hyperdrive
(HD) works by passing through a dimension called hyperspace. This allows
cosmic distances to be travelled in a matter of days instead of a dozen
millennia, but while in hyperspace ships can\'t send or receive any
transmissions or sensor data.

All ships built with HD\'s are given a rating. This acts as a multiplier
applied to their travel time. It is against Imperium Law for any
civilian craft to be equipped with a drive rated better than ×2.

##### Sub-Light Travel Times

Travel within a solar system is normally a fairly simple affair. Ships
lock their sensors onto a series of planetary beacons and follow them to
the desired destination. Travel time between inner worlds is only 1d6
hours, but when attempting to cross the outer planets it takes 2d6
hours.

Ships can choose to hide their approach by not using the beacons,
network but this requires a Moderate *Navigation* roll. On a failure the
ship goes off course doubling the travel time. Pilots can also attempt
to speed up the travel time by rolling their *Pilot* skill adding the
Move dice of the ship. If the pilot rolls a Moderate level of success
the travel time is reduced 10%. A Difficult roll reduces travel time by
20%, a Very Difficult roll reduces travel time by 30% and a Heroic roll
reduces the time by 50%.

##### Travel Time Between Systems

The times listed below are the average amount of time needed to travel
directly between two systems. To make the trip successfully a Moderate
*Navigation* roll is required. Because of possible obstacles between two
systems it is often faster to travel indirectly. By flying to an
intermediary spaceport ships can save time.

If the pilot plots their own coordinates they can attempt to reduce the
time needed and avoid Imperium entanglements often found on the more
common trade routes. If the pilot makes a Difficult *Navigation* roll
the time needed is reduced 10%, a Very Difficult roll reduces the time
by 25%, and a Heroic roll reduces the time by 50%. These "shortcuts"
take advantage of the celestial movement and cannot be reused. If the
roll is a failure the jump fails causing one wound level of damage to
the ship, and increases the travel time required by 1d6 days if the
normal time needed is over one day or 1d6 hours if less than a day.

```{=ms}
.nr old_PS \n[PS]
.nr PS 5.6p
.nr old_VS \n[VS]
.nr VS 6.5
```
```{=context}
\switchtobodyfont[7pt]
```
::: {.container .keep}
                 **Chahnae**   **Drougayn**   **Helmar**   **Kalavel**   **Lesdin**   **Peles**   **Petrion**   **Seljan**   **Tauran**   **Telmera**   **Varos**
  -------------- ------------- -------------- ------------ ------------- ------------ ----------- ------------- ------------ ------------ ------------- -----------
  **Ajada**      11h           19d 11h        6d 3h        5d 16h        2d 1h        4d 23h      3h            12d 16h      9h           1d 3h         14h
  **Chahnae**    ---           12d 16h        8d 12h       4d 19h        2d 17h       6d 20h      22h           7d 22h       12h          8h            16h
  **Drougayn**   ---           ---            5d 17h       4d 6h         12d 6h       2d 19h      11d 2h        6d 21h       9d 10h       11d 11h       7d 13h
  **Helmar**     ---           ---            ---          9d 20h        3d 18h       5d 6h       9d 3h         3d 22h       7d 2h        5d 21h        10d 15h
  **Kalavel**    ---           ---            ---          ---           7d 4h        9d 6h       10d 7h        3d 5h        12d 15h      7d 14h        10d 19h
  **Lesdin**     ---           ---            ---          ---           ---          9d 11h      11d 16h       1d 23h       10d 2h       6d 8h         7d 11h
  **Peles**      ---           ---            ---          ---           ---          ---         9d 19h        2d 14h       3d 6h        10d 20h       4d 6h
  **Petrion**    ---           ---            ---          ---           ---          ---         ---           4d 11h       7d 18h       3d 9h         7h
  **Seljan**     ---           ---            ---          ---           ---          ---         ---           ---          6d 1h        9d 5h         13h
  **Tauran**     ---           ---            ---          ---           ---          ---         ---           ---          ---          20h           5h
  **Telmera**    ---           ---            ---          ---           ---          ---         ---           ---          ---          ---           9h

*d = Days, h = Hours*
:::

```{=ms}
.nr PS \n[old_PS]u
.nr VS \n[old_VS]u
```
```{=context}
\switchtobodyfont[10pt]
```
##### Money and Gear

The coin of the galaxy is called the Imperial Credit. Several local
systems and small independent worlds also issue their own currency, but
they are seldom worth anything beyond the issuing region\'s border.

The Imperium tracks large (in excess of 20,000) credit transfers between
individuals, but while the law dictates strict enforcement many bankers
and civil servants have a streak of laziness and corruption. This works
to the advantage of both organized crime, independent grifters,
smugglers, and stalwart rebels.

Imperium law also forbids civilians from owning unregistered weapons,
assault rifles, and body armor. Papers are issued locally. Fortunately
forgeries are easy to come by and the data cores holding the information
easily hacked.

It is recommended that the GM let the players have a spaceship to use in
their travels. This ship could be borrowed from the Rebel Command or one
of the players might be in debt to a loan shark for the hefty cost of a
heavily customized vessel. Civilian ships are not allowed armaments, so
any weapons placed on a ship will need either forged documents granting
permission or be somehow concealable from casual scanning. GMs should
use the plot device that best serves the needs of their individual
games.

Personal weapons include a variety of energy weapons ranging from
holdout lasers to heavy disrupter pistols. Those going into heavy combat
also try to get their hands on laser rifles and blaster carbines. Body
armor ranges from reinforced clothing to bulky fully body armor favored
by mercenaries.

#### Advice for the GM

Imperium in Revolt is classic space opera. Laser weapons, energy
shields, thousands of alien races, and a universe where a few brave
souls can change the fates of entire worlds. It is larger than life
featuring daring deeds that are breathtaking in scope. The most
civilized planets are covered in mega-cities while remote worlds are
home to ancient trees standing a half mile tall. Desert worlds and ocean
planets can be found along with alien landscapes of liquid metal seas
and fiery vistas.

Adventures often take place on a single world but they need not stay
confined to only one. By incorporating world spanning adventures you can
help reinforce how interconnected the Imperium is. Part of what gave the
Sovereign his opportunity was the stories of worlds that starved to
death because they depended on galactic trade for basic necessities.
Playing on both the careful deceptions of imperial propaganda and the
discovering ruins of dead worlds can heighten the desperation felt
across the galaxy as it struggles for freedom.

As for the Imperium itself, it works hard to put on a friendly
protective face for the public but in truth its officers are frequently
cruel, ambitious men who cannot be trusted. Despite this stereotype of
casual evil, the major imperial characters can still be complex people
with likes, loves, and secrets of their own. It can be fun to play to
the maniacal villains trying to destroy the PC\'s but if you give that
recurring villain a bit of depth and history there can be more potential
to draw on later. These complex recurring villains can add depth to your
game, but if the players are clever enough to take one down you should
let them succeed.

##### Adventure Seeds

**The Salvage Yard:** A damaged rebel frigate took refuge in an
abandoned asteroid mining operation. The ship\'s life support failed
leaving only a drifting hulk. Imperium forces are now looking for the
ship and the secret transmissions it holds. The players need to locate
and retrieve the ship\'s computer core before the Imperium does.

Unknown to both sides, hidden among the drifting ships and abandoned
equipment are the aliens that destroyed the mining operation and they
are getting hungry again.

**Our New Hope:** Rebel Command has discovered that a master from the
Order of Star Paladins has been living in seclusion on a remote world,
hidden from the Inquisition. The rebels also realize that if they have
learned of his whereabouts, the Inquisition might have too. Someone
needs to try and get word to the once great knight about the danger he
is in.

The GM may have the paladin be alive, fallen into wickedness, or already
dead leaving only a few scraps of cryptic knowledge and a journal or
maybe someone claiming to be his apprentice.

#### Character Templates

##### Minor Paladin

*Focus, honor, humility.*

| **Might: 3D** --- Plasma Sword 4D
| **Agility: 3D** --- Dodge 4D
| **Wit: 4D** --- Magic 6D
| **Charm: 2D**
| **Static:** Dodge 12, Block 9, Parry 12, Soak 9
| **Perks & Comps:** Sorcerer, Hunted
| **Spells:** Charm, ESP, Sense Danger
| **Gear:** Plasma Sword

##### Scruffy Smuggler

*I can get ya there, no questions asked.*

| **Might: 3D** --- Brawling 4D
| **Agility: 3D+2** --- Dodge 5D, Pilot 4D+2, Pistol 5D
| **Wit: 2D+1** --- Navigation 3D+1
| **Charm: 3D** --- Streetwise 4D+1
| **Static:** Dodge 15, Block 12, Parry 9, Soak 9
| **Perks & Comp:** Large Debt
| **Gear:** Heavy Blaster, Light Transport

##### Exiled Royal

*Do you KNOW who I am?*

| **Might: 2D+1** --- Melee 3D
| **Agility: 3D+2** --- Dodge 5D, Pistol 3D,
| **Wit: 3D+1** --- History 4D
| **Charm: 3D+1** --- Command 5D+1, Diplomacy 4D+2
| **Static:** Dodge 15, Block 7, Parry 9, Soak 7
| **Perks:** Favors
| **Gear:** hold-out pistol, wardrobe.

##### Kaishee Pilot

*You don\'t want to make me mad.*

| **Might: 4D+2**
| **Agility: 3D+1** --- Dodge 4D+1, Pilot 5D+1
| **Wit: 2D** --- Navigation 3D+2
| **Charm: 2D** --- Streetwise 4D
| **Static:** Dodge 13, Block 14, Parry 14, Soak 14
| **Perks:** Kaishee (1)
| **Gear:** Plasma bolter, bandoliers.

##### Android Companion

*As you command.*

| **Might: 2D**
| **Agility: 3D** --- Dodge 4D
| **Wit: 5D** --- Languages 6D, Repair 6D
| **Charm: 2D**
| **Static:** Dodge 12, Block 6, Parry 6, Soak 6
| **Perks & Comps:** Robot, Total Pacifist
| **Gear:** Systems link, toolkit.

##### Failed Apprentice

*Honor? It \'n 2 creds buys a drink.*

| **Might: 2D+2** --- Plasma Sword 4D
| **Agility: 3D+1** --- Dodge 4D, Stealth 3D+2
| **Wit: 3D+2** --- Magic 4D+2
| **Charm: 2D+1** --- Courage 3D
| **Static:** Dodge 12, Block 8, Parry 12, Soak 8
| **Perks & Comps:** Sorcerer, Hunted
| **Gear:** Plasma sword, whiskey.

##### Ex-Imperium Officer

*I swore to defend. Not enslave.*

| **Might: 3D** --- Athletics 3D+2
| **Agility: 3D** --- Dodge 4D, Pistol 4D
| **Wit: 3D** --- Computer 4D, Navigation 4D
| **Charm: 3D** --- Command 5D, Courage 3D+1
| **Static:** Dodge 12, Block 9, Parry 9, Soak 9
| **Gear:** Laser Pistol. Naval Uniform.

##### High Inquisitor

*You will submit.*

| **Might: 3D** --- Brawling 4D+2, Plasma Sword 8D, Stamina 6D
| **Agility: 2D+2** --- Dodge 6D+2, Pistol 5D, Stealth 5D+1
| **Wit: 4D** --- Computer 5D, History 6D+1, Language 6D, Magic 9D+2,
  Tracking 7D
| **Charm: 2D+1** --- Command 7D+1, Courage 6D+2, Diplomacy 6D
| **Static:** Dodge 20, Block 14, Parry 24, Soak 9(18)
| **Perks:** Cyborg, Favors, Sorcerer
| **Gear:** Custom body armor (+9), plasma sword, pistol

##### Centurion

*For the Imperium!*

| **Might: 3D+1** --- Brawling 4D+1, Stamina 4D
| **Agility: 2D+2** --- Dodge 3D+2, Pistol 4D, Rifle 4D+1
| **Wit: 2D** --- Search 3D
| **Charm: 2D** --- Command 2D+1
| \*\*Static: Dodge 11, Block 13, Parry 10, Soak 10(16)
| **Gear:** Body Armor (+6), Rifle

##### Bounty Hunter

*Everyone has a price on them.*

| **Might: 3D+1** --- Brawling 4D, Melee 4D
| **Agility: 3D+1** --- Dodge 4D, Pistol 4D, Rifle 4D
| **Wit: 3D** --- Computer 4D, Search 4D, Tracking 4D
| **Charm: 2D+1** --- Diplomacy 3D
| **Static:** Dodge 12, Block 12, Parry 12, Soak 10(13)
| **Gear:** Body armor (+6), rifle, taser manacles, tracking beacons

##### Telmek Gangster

*Of course I can help you out.*

| **Might: 3D** --- Brawling 4D+1, Melee 4D
| **Agility: 2D+1** --- Dodge 4D+2, Pilot 3D+2, Pistol 5D
| **Wit: 3D** --- Computer 5D, Languages 5D, Star Systems 6D, Search 4D
| **Charm: 3D+2** --- Command 5D+1, Courage 5D, Diplomacy 6D, Seduce
  4D+1, Streetwise 7D
| **Static:** Dodge 14, Block 13, Parry 12, Soak 9
| **Perks:** Favors, Telmek
| **Gear:** Pistol, pocket computer.

#### Vehicles

```{=ms}
.MC 2.1i 0.2i
```
```{=context}
\startcolumns[n=2]
```
The following are examples of the ships used in the galactic struggle.
There are many more used by the various factions, both aligned and
unaligned.

##### Imperial Dreadnaught

*Galaxy Class Dreadnaught*

| **Cost:** \$\$\$\$\$
| **Scale:** +12D
| **Skill:** Command
| **Body:** 6D
| **MNV:** 1D
| **Move:** 4D
| **Hyperdrive:** ×2
| **Crew:** 29,000
| **Psg:** 2,500
| **Cargo:** 50ktn
| **Troops:** 6,000 Centurions w/landing craft
| **Fighters:** 64 Talon-ImPC
| **Assault Bombers:** 16 Razor-ImAC
| **Shields:** 3D
| **Weapons:** 60 Quad-Laser Batteries (6D), 40 Ion Pulse Cannon
  Batteries (4D+1), 8 Tractor Beam Projectors (capture target), 24 Heavy
  Nova Torpedoes (8D), 120 AA Gun Batteries (4D, Fighter scale)

##### Talon-ImPC

*Space Superiority Fighter*

| **Cost:** \$\$
| **Scale:** +6D
| **Skill:** Pilot
| **Body:** 2D
| **MNV:** 2D
| **Move:** 5D
| **Hyperdrive:** none
| **Crew:** 1
| **Psg:** 0
| **Cargo:** none
| **Shields:** none
| **Weapons:** Weapons: Laser Cannon (5D)

##### Razor-ImaAC

*Heavy Bomber*

| **Cost:** \$\$\$\$
| **Scale:** +6D
| **Skill:** Pilot
| **Body:** 3D
| **MNV:** 1D
| **Move:** 3D+1
| **Hyperdrive:** none
| **Crew:** 2
| **Psg:** 2
| **Cargo:** none
| **Shields:** 1D
| **Weapons:** Laser Cannon (5D), 2 Nova Torpedo Tubes (9D), 2 EM Pulse
  Bombs (8D, if targets in area are Wounded all energized systems are
  disabled)

##### Avari Frigate

*Retrofitted Rebel Ship of the Line*

| **Cost:** \$\$\$\$\$
| **Scale:** +12D
| **Skill:** Command
| **Body:** 4D
| **MNV:** 1D
| **Move:** 3D+2
| **Hyperdrive:** ×1
| **Crew:** 4,750
| **Psg:** 400
| **Cargo:** 20ktn
| **Troops:** 1,000 marines w/ landing craft
| **Shields:** 2D
| **Weapons:** 24 Quad Laser Batteries (6D), 10 Ion Pulse Cannon
  Batteries (3D+2), 12 Heavy Nova Torpedo Tubes (8D), 60 AA Gun
  Batteries (4D, Fighter scale)

##### The Starhawk

*Customized Taurani Light Freighter*

| **Cost:** \$\$\$\$
| **Scale:** +6D
| **Skill:** Pilot
| **Body:** 5D
| **MNV:** 1D
| **Move:** 4D
| **Hyperdrive:** ×½
| **Crew:** 2
| **Psg:** 6
| **Cargo:** 100tn
| **Shields:** 2D
| **Weapons:** 1 Nova Torpedo Tube (9D), 2 Twin Barrel Laser Cannons
  (5D+1/ea), Ion Pulse Cannon (4D)

##### Enigma Mk II

*Rebel Attack Fighter*

| **Cost:** \$\$\$
| **Scale:** +6D
| **Skill:** Pilot
| **Body:** 4D
| **MNV:** 3D
| **Move:** 4D
| **Hyperdrive:** ×2
| **Crew:** 1
| **Psg:** 0
| **Cargo:** none
| **Shields:** 1D
| **Weapons:** Quad Laser Cannon (6D), 4 Micro-Pulse Missiles (8D+1)

##### K-90

*In-System Interceptor*

| **Cost:** \$\$
| **Scale:** +6D
| **Skill:** Pilot
| **Body:** 2D+1
| **MNV:** 3D
| **Move:** 5D
| **Hyperdrive:** none
| **Crew:** 1
| **Psg:** 0
| **Cargo:** none
| **Shields:** 1D
| **Weapons:** Twin Barrel Ion Cannon (4D+1), Laser Cannon (5D)

```{=ms}
.1C
```
```{=context}
\stopcolumns
```
```{=context}
\pagebreak[yes]
```
## OPEN GAME LICENSE Version 1.0a

```{=ms}
.nr old_PS \n[PS]
.nr PS 5p
.nr old_VS \n[VS]
.nr VS 6p
```
```{=context}
\switchtobodyfont[5pt]
```
The following text is the property of Wizards of the Coast, Inc. and is
Copyright 2000 Wizards of the Coast, Inc ("Wizards"). All Rights
Reserved.

1\. Definitions: (a) "Contributors" means the copyright and/or trademark
owners who have contributed Open Game Content; (b) "Derivative Material"
means copyrighted material including derivative works and translations
(including into other computer languages), potation, modification,
correction, addition, extension, upgrade, improvement, compilation,
abridgment or other form in which an existing work may be recast,
transformed or adapted; (c) "Distribute" means to reproduce, license,
rent, lease, sell, broadcast, publicly display, transmit or otherwise
distribute; (d) "Open Game Content" means the game mechanic and includes
the methods, procedures, processes and routines to the extent such
content does not embody the Product Identity and is an enhancement over
the prior art and any additional content clearly identified as Open Game
Content by the Contributor, and means any work covered by this License,
including translations and derivative works under copyright law, but
specifically excludes Product Identity. (e) "Product Identity" means
product and product line names, logos and identifying marks including
trade dress; artifacts; creatures characters; stories, storylines,
plots, thematic elements, dialogue, incidents, language, artwork,
symbols, designs, depictions, likenesses, formats, poses, concepts,
themes and graphic, photographic and other visual or audio
representations; names and descriptions of characters, spells,
enchantments, personalities, teams, personas, likenesses and special
abilities; places, locations, environments, creatures, equipment,
magical or supernatural abilities or effects, logos, symbols, or graphic
designs; and any other trademark or registered trademark clearly
identified as Product identity by the owner of the Product Identity, and
which specifically excludes the Open Game Content; (f) "Trademark" means
the logos, names, mark, sign, motto, designs that are used by a
Contributor to identify itself or its products or the associated
products contributed to the Open Game License by the Contributor (g)
"Use", "Used" or "Using" means to use, Distribute, copy, edit, format,
modify, translate and otherwise create Derivative Material of Open Game
Content. (h) "You" or "Your" means the licensee in terms of this
agreement.

2\. The License: This License applies to any Open Game Content that
contains a notice indicating that the Open Game Content may only be Used
under and in terms of this License. You must affix such a notice to any
Open Game Content that you Use. No terms may be added to or subtracted
from this License except as described by the License itself. No other
terms or conditions may be applied to any Open Game Content distributed
using this License.

3\. Offer and Acceptance: By Using the Open Game Content You indicate
Your acceptance of the terms of this License.

4\. Grant and Consideration: In consideration for agreeing to use this
License, the Contributors grant You a perpetual, worldwide,
royalty-free, non exclusive license with the exact terms of this License
to Use, the Open Game Content.

5\. Representation of Authority to Contribute: If You are contributing
original material as Open Game Content, You represent that Your
Contributions are Your original creation and/or You have sufficient
rights to grant the rights conveyed by this License.

6\. Notice of License Copyright: You must update the COPYRIGHT NOTICE
portion of this License to include the exact text of the COPYRIGHT
NOTICE of any Open Game Content You are copying, modifying or
distributing, and You must add the title, the copyright date, and the
copyright holder\'s name to the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any original Open
Game Content you Distribute.

7\. Use of Product Identity: You agree not to Use any Product Identity,
including as an indication as to compatibility, except as expressly
licensed in another, independent Agreement with the owner of each
element of that Product Identity. You agree not to indicate
compatibility or co-adaptability with any Trademark or Registered
Trademark in conjunction with a work containing Open Game Content except
as expressly licensed in another, independent Agreement with the owner
of such Trademark or Registered Trademark. The use of any Product
Identity in Open Game Content does not constitute a challenge to the
ownership of that Product Identity. The owner of any Product Identity
used in Open Game Content shall retain all rights, title and interest in
and to that Product Identity.

8\. Identification: If you distribute Open Game Content You must clearly
indicate which portions of the work that you are distributing are Open
Game Content.

9\. Updating the License: Wizards or its designated Agents may publish
updated versions of this License. You may use any authorized version of
this License to copy, modify and distribute any Open Game Content
originally distributed under any version of this License.

10\. Copy of this License: You MUST include a copy of this License with
every copy of the Open Game Content You Distribute.

11\. Use of Contributor Credits: You may not market or advertise the
Open Game Content using the name of any Contributor unless You have
written permission from the Contributor to do so.

12\. Inability to Comply: If it is impossible for You to comply with any
of the terms of this License with respect to some or all of the Open
Game Content due to statute, judicial order, or governmental regulation
then You may not Use any Open Game Material so affected.

13\. Termination: This License will terminate automatically if You fail
to comply with all terms herein and fail to cure such breach within 30
days of becoming aware of the breach. All sublicenses shall survive the
termination of this License.

14\. Reformation: If any provision of this License is held to be
unenforceable, such provision shall be reformed only to the extent
necessary to make it enforceable.

15. COPYRIGHT NOTICE

| Open Game License v 1.0 Copyright 2000, Wizards of the Coast, Inc.
| D6 Adventure (WEG51011), Copyright 2004, Purgatory Publishing Inc.
| West End Games, WEG, and D6 System are trademarks and properties of
  Purgatory Publishing Inc.
| Mini Six Bare Bones Edition, Copyright 2010, AntiPaladin Games.
| Mini Six, and APG are trademarks and properties of AntiPaladin Games.

PRODUCT IDENTIFICATION:

Product Identity: The D6 System; the D6 trademarks, the D6 and related
logos and any derivative trademarks not specified as Open Game Content
are designated as Product Identity (PI) and are properties of Purgatory
Publishing Inc. All rights reserved.

The Mini Six and the Mini Six Bare Bones Edition trademarks and related
logos and any derivative trademarks are designated as Product Identity
(PI) and are properties of AntiPaladin Games. All rights reserved.

Open Game Content: All game mechanics and material not covered under
Product Identity (PI) above; OpenD6 trademark and OpenD6 logo.

This is the end of the Open Game License.

If you would like to use the Mini Six trademark or logo beyond the scope
of fair use, please visit
[antipaladingames.com](http://www.antipaladingames.com/p/license.html)
for details.

```{=ms}
.nr PS \n[old_PS]u
.nr VS \n[old_VS]u
```
