{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0 \fswiss Helvetica;}{\f1 \fmodern Courier;}}
{\colortbl;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\widowctrl\hyphauto

{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs36 Mimimal OpenD6 System Reference Document\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Mimimal OpenD6 is a {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/System_Reference_Document"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
System Reference Document
}}}
 based on Mini Six, from {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.antipaladingames.com/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
AntiPaladin Games
}}}
, used in accordance with the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.antipaladingames.com/p/license.html"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Mini Six Standard Trademark License
}}}
 and the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://ogc.rpglibrary.org/images/7/73/OpenD6_OGL_v2.pdf"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Open Game License
}}}
 used with {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://opend6.fandom.com/wiki/OpenD6"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
OpenD6
}}}
.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel0 \b \fs36 Definitions of Common Game Terms\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Mimimal OpenD6 wasn't written to be read from the standpoint of the novice gamer; someone who's never seen a roleplaying game before. So, if you're lost the following definitions might prove helpful.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Adventure:} The story the player characters are taking part in. Rescue the princess, slay the dragon, blow up the space station, break up the car theft ring. It is like having one episode of a television show or a single movie. It might be finished in a single night or take several sessions to complete.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Campaign:} Linked adventures that tell a larger story. For instance it could resemble a series of novels telling an epic quest or a television series where each adventure is episodic and the main common factor are the recurring characters.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Game Master (GM):} The person in charge. They are sometimes called narrators. They run the adventure and act as impartial judge helping to keep the game moving.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Non-Player Character (NPC):} All of the characters controlled by the Game Master. They are the heroes' allies, enemies, extras in the background, and everyone in between. If it's a character not controlled by a player, it's an NPC. These characters do not follow normal creation guidelines. They are built on the needs of the story and for the purpose the GM has in mind for them.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Player Character (PC):} The protagonists, be they hero or antihero. These are the characters controlled by the players.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Round (rd or /r):} Approximately ten seconds of time in the game world. How to track the speed of simple actions and combat.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Scene:} An intense fight, a thrilling car chase, a meeting with NPC's, each extended moment of interaction with each other or others is a scene. Just like in a play or a story, when the action winds down it's the end of a scene.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Session:} A single gathering of gamers. When you are done for the night and everyone is going home, it is the end of the session. Please respect your host by cleaning your area before you leave; it's just the nice thing to do.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Target Number (TN):} This is the number you need to roll or higher to succeed at whatever you are attempting. General challenges are broken down into six levels of difficulty (see {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "#general-non-combat-challenges"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
General (non-combat) Challenges
}}}
). Combat target numbers are based on the target's defensive scores like block, dodge, etc. Sometimes you will attempt to affect another character through certain skills, such as {\i Seduce} or {\i Persuasion}, which can be resisted by the target's skill. In this case you must beat the defender's roll to succeed. The TN of a given action might be modified by the GM depending on circumstances.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel0 \b \fs36 About this Book\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Minimal OpenD6 is a member of the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://opend6.fandom.com/wiki/OpenD6"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
OpenD6
}}}
 family of games. It's cinematic and flexible like its parent, but its goal is to be lighter and faster, keeping the heart of the system's mechanics but streamling the rules.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "#how-to-make-a-character"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
How to Make a Character
}}}
 details character creation while {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "#the-game-mechanics"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
The Game Mechanics
}}}
 and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "#combat"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Combat
}}}
 provide all the needed mechanics to play a complete game. Beyond these short sections are additional rules and options to expand your game.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "#vehicles-1"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Vehicles
}}}
 and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "#the-simple-magic-system"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
The Simple Magic System
}}}
 are rules that will only come up in some games. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "#sample-characters-by-genre"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Sample Characters by Genre
}}}
 provide GMs with a ready list of NPCs and monsters to populate the game. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "#optional-rules"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Optional Rules
}}}
 provides rule variants to help change up the game to better fit the style of the campaign desired.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 In {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "#making-the-game-your-own"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Making the Game Your Own
}}}
 the GM will find a little advice on creating the campaign and adapting other OpenD6 materials to their Minimal OpenD6 games. In {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "#sample-settings"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Sample Settings
}}}
 you will find several sample settings that are nearly ready to go as is.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 What you won't find in ths book are a lot of detailed examples, exhaustive rules to cover every possible scenario, or a large list of modifiers. Instead, we are trusting GMs, with the help of their players, to apply common sense to make the game fun for everyone. Don't slow the game down by wasting time digging for rules that aren't there. And most importantly, when the rules conflict with fun, fun wins.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel0 \b \fs36 Dice Basics\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 This game uses regular six sided dice. The number before the \u8220"D\u8221" is how many to roll, and any number after a + is how much to add to the roll. For instance 2D+2 means roll two dice and add two to the resulting total.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 One die rolled is always the Wild Die. Use a different color die to represent this or roll the dice one at a time making the last die rolled the wild die. If the wild die results in a six, then roll again adding the six and the new result together. If a six comes up on the reroll, then you add six and reroll again! Keep doing it until the wild die lands on something other than a 6.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel0 \b \fs36 How to Make a Character\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab Distribute 12 dice between the four attributes. No attribute may have less than one nor more than four dice assigned to it.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 2.\tx360\tab Distribute 7 dice to skills and perks. No skill may have more than two dice assigned to it at character creation.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 3.\tx360\tab Select Complications.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 4.\tx360\tab Choose gear.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Splitting Dice:} skill and attribute dice may be split into \u8220"pips.\u8221" Each die is equal to three pips. An attribute must always have at least 1D. An attribute may have dice only (no bonus pips), +1 or +2. Going to \u8220"+3\u8221" advances the die code to the next largest die. Example progression is 1D, 1D+1, 1D+2, 2D, 2D+1, etc.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Attributes\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Each character has four attributes which measure basic physical and mental abilities that are common to every creature. Characters distribute 12D among the four attributes. These are normally rated on a scale of 1D to 4D, although perks may change these limits. When putting dice into each attribute you can put whole dice in each or use a mixture of whole dice and pips.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Might} represents physical strength, toughness, and amount of damage dealt when striking unarmed.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Agility} represents aim and coordination.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wit} represents mental creativity and intelligence.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Charm} represents charisma, resolve, and leadership.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Skills\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Characters are further defined by skills. Players may allocate up 7D on skills to best represent the unique talents of their character. Unspent skill dice can be used to purchase Perks.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Skills are areas of expertise that represent focus and training. When putting dice into each skill you can put whole dice in each or use a mixture of whole dice and pips. No more than 2D may be spent in each skill during character creation. Each skill defaults to the level of the related attribute. For example, a character who has a Might of 3D has 3D in all skills under Might before allocating any dice. If two dice are added to {\i Brawling} it is recorded as 5D.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The following is an incomplete skill list designed to serve as an inspiration for what may be used in a game. Each game should have a tailored list of appropriate skills which might include new skills or modify examples given. For example a typical sword and sorcery game might use an expanded list of melee skills to further define its warriors while a science fiction game may lump them all into a unified skill named \u8220"Melee Combat.\u8221"\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1920\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3360\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4920\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6480\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8040
\trkeep\intbl
{
{\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Might Skills}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Agility Skills}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Wit Skills}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Charm Skills}\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1920\cellx3360\cellx4920\cellx6480\cellx8040
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b All Genres}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Brawling\u8224 ?\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Athletics\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Athletics\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Command\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1920\cellx3360\cellx4920\cellx6480\cellx8040
\trkeep\intbl
{
{\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Knife\u8224 ?\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Dodge\u8224 ?\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Language\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Courage\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1920\cellx3360\cellx4920\cellx6480\cellx8040
\trkeep\intbl
{
{\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Lift\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Pickpocket\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Medicine\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Diplomacy\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1920\cellx3360\cellx4920\cellx6480\cellx8040
\trkeep\intbl
{
{\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Mace\u8224 ?\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Stealth\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Pick Locks\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Persuasion\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1920\cellx3360\cellx4920\cellx6480\cellx8040
\trkeep\intbl
{
{\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Stamina\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Throwing\u8224 ?\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Search\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Seduce\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1920\cellx3360\cellx4920\cellx6480\cellx8040
\trkeep\intbl
{
{\cell}
{\cell}
{\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Tracking\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1920\cellx3360\cellx4920\cellx6480\cellx8040
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Modern}\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 BFG\u8224 ?\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Computer\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Streetwise\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1920\cellx3360\cellx4920\cellx6480\cellx8040
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b or Sci-fi}\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Drive\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Navigation\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1920\cellx3360\cellx4920\cellx6480\cellx8040
\trkeep\intbl
{
{\cell}
{\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Pilot\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Repair\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1920\cellx3360\cellx4920\cellx6480\cellx8040
\trkeep\intbl
{
{\cell}
{\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Pistol\u8224 ?\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Science\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1920\cellx3360\cellx4920\cellx6480\cellx8040
\trkeep\intbl
{
{\cell}
{\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Rifle\u8224 ?\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1920\cellx3360\cellx4920\cellx6480\cellx8040
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Fantasy}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Axe\u8224 ?\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bow\u8224 ?\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Magic\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Ride\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1920\cellx3360\cellx4920\cellx6480\cellx8040
\trkeep\intbl
{
{\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Pole Arm\u8224 ?\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Crossbow\u8224 ?\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1920\cellx3360\cellx4920\cellx6480\cellx8040
\trkeep\intbl
{
{\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Smithing\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
{\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1920\cellx3360\cellx4920\cellx6480\cellx8040
\trkeep\intbl
{
{\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Sword\u8224 ?\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
{\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \u8224 ? = {\i Combat skills are not allowed specializations}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Skill Specializations\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Specializations are focused aspects of a skill. For example, {\i Drive} specializations might include {\i Car} and {\i Motorcycle}. One skill die can be spent to gain three specialty dice. Combat skills don't have specializations. Example: A character with an Agility of 3D focuses on the {\i Running} Speciality of {\i Athletics}. He spends one skill die in it, but records it as Running 6D on his character sheet. He has an {\i Athletics} of only 3D. This is the only time the 2D skill limit can be exceeded during character creation.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Perks\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 During character creation, unspent skill dice may be spent to acquire Perks. The following perks are meant to serve as examples and inspiration. The cost listed next to each is in whole skill dice.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Racial Perks\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Dwarf (1):} You're long lived, you can see in the dark, you receive +2 to smithing or any other craft skill, Your maximum Might is 5D but your maximum Agility is 3D.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Elf (2):} You're long lived, you can see in the dark, you receive a +1 on all ranged attacks, Your maximum Agility is 5D but your maximum Might is only 3D.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Reptoid (2):} You're green and scaly, this gives a +1 Armor Value. You also have claw-tipped fingers which grant you +1 damage on unarmed attacks. You might also be asexual. Sorry.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Robot (4):} You don't eat, breathe, or sleep. You can have your memory wiped. You don't heal but you can be repaired. As long as your memory core survives you may be rebuilt if destroyed.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 General Perks\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Attractive (1):} Others find the character pleasing to look at. This can help reduce suspicions or distract others depending on the given situation. Once per session the character can double one roll for any action related to their appearance. Examples include seduction, a subtle bluff or simply distracting guards.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Daredevil (2):} Once per session you may throw caution to the wind taking extremely reckless action that may result in your own death. Your dodge, block, and parry are reduced by half however all Might rolls are doubled when resisting damage for one round.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Destiny (2):} Characters with Destiny feel they are fated to some grand purpose. Once per game session a character may declare a failed roll is not part of their Destiny and immediately reroll to get a different result.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Favors (1):} People owe you. Once per session you can call in one of those debts. This can take the form of information, a temporary use of equipment (borrowing a truck, plow, pump action shotgun, etc.), a place to hide someone or something for a brief time, or any similar event.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Lucky (2):} Once per session you can declare you are feeling lucky. Double the result of your next roll.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Perceptive (2):} The GM may reveal small clues to you that others would miss. Once per session a character may announce they are studying an object or situation and the GM may reveal something that would be impossible for a normal character to determine. If nothing is revealed this perk may be used again. \u8220"Elementary, my dear Watson.\u8221"\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Recall (1):} Any time the character chooses to recall anything he has experienced, the GM must tell him the truth in as much detail as the character would have been aware.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Sidekick (3):} You have a boon companion willing to join in your adventures. This character only gets 10D to spend on attributes and 4D to spend on starting skills. They normally only receive 1 to 3 CP per session, but never as many as their fearless leader.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Esoteric Perks\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Energy Blast (5):} You can throw bolts of pure energy. These do 4D damage and use your {\i Throwing} skill.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b ESP (3):} You can read minds. Targets resist using their Charm vs. your Wits.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Flying (4):} You can fly (at twice your move).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Regeneration (3):} You heal 1 wound level/hour.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Sorcerer (3):} You're magically sensitive. Magic spells actually work for you. See {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "#the-simple-magic-system"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
The Simple Magic System
}}}
.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Telekinesis (3):} You can move stuff with your mind. Make a Wits roll and treat it like the {\i Lift} skill. People resist using their Might.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b X-Ray Vision (3):} you can see through 1 foot of material.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel0 \b \fs36 Complications\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 During character creation only, players may select up to two complications. These grant no additional skill dice during character creation; however, if one comes up in play the character earns one CP. Characters may not earn more than one CP per complication per session regardless of how often it comes up.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Age:} You're either really old or really young. In addition to all the social issues caused by your age, the GM might choose to impose a penalty to an action based on your character's age. Grandpa throws a hip, a weird dude offers you candy on the street, and it's hard for either of you to seduce the supermodel at the bar. Whenever your age causes you great difficulty receive one CP.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Crazy:} You have issues that are guaranteed to put the therapists' kids through college. Could be you're just really paranoid, or maybe just a touch too OCD. That fear of most everything could also be a problem. Then again maybe you really are Napoleon and everyone else is wrong, good luck convincing anyone else since you're a lunatic. Hastur, Hastur, Hastur! Take your pills and earn one CP any time your psychosis really gets in the way.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Enemies:} Someone doesn't like you at all. And they are a credible threat. Maybe they have more friends than you, maybe they're just bigger and meaner; either way you have your own personal bully. You earn the bonus CP when they complicate your life.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Gremlins:} You have a special touch. Specifically the kind that breaks machines. You're no good with engines, electronics, magical gizmos, or any other trinket. If it's a device, you can't trust it. Earn one CP whenever the GM takes his one free shot on you this way.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Personal Code:} You live by a creed and you will not cross that line. Maybe you won't fight an unarmed opponent and always make sure they know its coming or maybe you never tell a lie. No matter how you define it, your code has to mean something. Some caped crusaders won't kill, paladins won't resort to deception, and sometimes there is even honor among thieves. Earn one CP whenever your code complicates you or friends' success.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Skeletons in the Closet:} You've been a naughty boy. Maybe you're a closet smoker. Maybe those hookers buried themselves. Maybe that enemy uniform in the closet really isn't yours. Maybe the bank really meant to let you take all that money out that day. Whatever, the universe doesn't judge. You earn the bonus CP whenever your past comes back to haunt you.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Unlucky in Love:} Things just don't work out for some guys. Your love interest is always dying, being kidnapped, betraying you, or even worse dumping you. You earn bonus CP when your love life falls apart in a meaningful way.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Unlucky in Money:} You have a hard time holding onto money. You earn the bonus CP when you lose a significant amount of cash through your own foolishness or bad luck and have nothing to show for it.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel0 \b \fs36 Gear\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Some games may assume the character has the trappings of a middle class lifestyle, while others may take place in a world of fantasy where only those items in your pack mean the difference between life and death.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Characters might start with one piece of related gear for each skill they allocated dice to during character creation. For example a pistol for the {\i Pistol} skill, a medic bag for {\i Medicine}, etc. For anything else, beg the GM.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1851\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2838
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Weapon}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Damage}\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1851\cellx2838
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Axe\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +3D\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1851\cellx2838
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Club\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D+1\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1851\cellx2838
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Hatchet\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D+1\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1851\cellx2838
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Halberd\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +3D\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1851\cellx2838
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Knife\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1851\cellx2838
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Mace\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D+1\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1851\cellx2838
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Rapier\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +2D\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1851\cellx2838
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Staff\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +1D+2\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1851\cellx2838
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Spear\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +2D\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1851\cellx2838
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Sword\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +2D+2\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1851\cellx2838
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Sword, 2h\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +3D+1\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1851\cellx2838
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Warhammer\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +3D\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1851\cellx2838
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bow\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +2D+2\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1851\cellx2838
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Crossbow\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4D+1\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Low Tech Weapons}\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1851\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2838
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Armor}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Value}\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1851\cellx2838
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Leather\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +2\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1851\cellx2838
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Chainmail\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +6\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1851\cellx2838
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Platemail\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +9\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1851\cellx2838
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Shield\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +4\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Low Tech Armor}\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1851\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2838
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Weapon}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Damage}\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1851\cellx2838
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Light Pistol\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3D+2\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1851\cellx2838
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Heavy Pistol\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4D\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1851\cellx2838
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Rifle\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 5D\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1851\cellx2838
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Shotgun\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4D+2\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1851\cellx2838
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 BFG\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 6D\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Modern Tech Weapons}\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1851\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2838
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Weapon}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Damage}\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1851\cellx2838
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Plasma Pistol\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 5D\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1851\cellx2838
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Plasma Rifle\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 6D\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1851\cellx2838
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Plasma BFG\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 7D\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1851\cellx2838
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Plasma Sword\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +4D\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Sci-Fi Tech Weapons}\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1851\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2838
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Weapon}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b (S/M/L)}\u8224 ?\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1851\cellx2838
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bow\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 30/100/300\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1851\cellx2838
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Crossbow\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 50/150/400\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1851\cellx2838
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 All Pistols\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 30/100/350\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1851\cellx2838
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 All Rifles\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 100/350/500\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1851\cellx2838
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Shotguns\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 50/150/400\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1851\cellx2838
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 BFG\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 100/400/700\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1851\cellx2838
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Grenades\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 10/20/30\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Missile Weapon Ranges}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \u8224 ? Ranges in feet.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel0 \b \fs36 The Game Mechanics\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 General (non-combat) Challenges\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Characters roll the appropriate attribute plus skill against a set target number based on the task attempted.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Difficulty}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Target Number}\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Very Easy\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\u8211-5\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Easy\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 6\u8211-10\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Moderate\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 11\u8211-15\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Difficult\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 16\u8211-20\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Very Difficult\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 21\u8211-30\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Heroic\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 31+\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Very Easy:} Nearly everyone can do it. These checks should only be made if a success is critical to the scenario at hand.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Easy:} Characters will seldom have trouble with these tasks, but an untrained individual may find them challenging.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Moderate:} Average characters have a reasonable chance of failing at this level. Consistent success often requires training in the skill or a high level of natural ability.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Difficult:} Tasks at this level are truly challenging. To succeed a character needs to be well skilled or very lucky.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Very Difficult:} Challenges of this level fall into the domain of masters in the skill being used; few others will succeed at them.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Heroic:} These challenges are almost impossible. Only the very lucky or true masters can consistently succeed at them.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Order of Actions in a Round\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i (a round is considered to be approximately 10 seconds)}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab Declare all actions planned for the round.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 2.\tx360\tab Determine order of Initiative by rolling Agility for each character. Highest goes first.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 3.\tx360\tab Characters make rolls for all actions they are attempting. The target may get an opportunity to resist or avoid the action.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Multiple Actions\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Characters may attempt to do more than one thing on a turn by withholding one die from every action they attempt for each action beyond the first. For instance, if a character tries to shoot twice, he will subtract one die from each attempt.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Scaling\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Not all objects are on the same scale. Humans and horses may be close enough to be equals, but humans and dragons aren't. When dealing damage to a smaller scaled target or resisting damage inflicted by it, the larger adds the difference in modifiers to their die rolls or static defenses. Smaller scaled targets attempting to dodge attacks from or actually attempting to attack a larger scaled opponent add the difference to their dodge and attack rolls.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5040\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\i Scale}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\i Modifier}\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx5040\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Character, Animals\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 None\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx5040\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Air Cycle, Car, Little Dragon, Wagon\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +2D/+6 to Dodge & Soak\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx5040\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Big Dragon, Galley, Mecha, Tank\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +4D/+12 to Dodge & Soak\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx5040\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Fighter, Light Transport, Heavy Mecha\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +6D/+18 to Dodge & Soak\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx5040\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Capital Ship, Elder God, Space Station\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +12D/+36 to Dodge & Soak\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx5040\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Mega Space Station, Planets\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +24D/+72 to Dodge & Soak\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Movement\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A character may move up to 15 feet as a free action or move 30 feet at the cost of one action. If a character wishes to run faster he rolls his {\i Athletics} skill and adds it to his movement. If the only action taken in a round is running, his total move is doubled.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Experience\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 At the end of each session the GM awards each character a number of character points. The number of points given per session typically varies from 3 to 7 depending on drama, danger, success, and fun!\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Spending Character Points (CP)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Any skill may be increased one pip by spending a number of CPs equal to its current number of dice. No skill may be increased more than one pip per session. Skill specializations cost only half as much to raise, rounding up.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Character points are also used to improve attributes. This costs 10 times the number of dice a character has in the attribute to raise it one pip. All skills under this attribute also improve by one pip. For example, if a character had a Wit of 3D+1 and wanted to improve it to 3D+2 it would cost 30 CP.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Hero Points\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Characters start with 1 hero point and may spend it before any roll. Hero Points provide a variety of options, but once spent the point is lost:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Gaining a +6 to any single roll (up to 3 points may be used at one time when using this effect).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Just a flesh wound. Once per combat a hero point can be used to reduce the severity of a character's wounds one level.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Make a small change to their location (locating an unlocked window, finding a can of WD40 and a roll of duct tape, etc).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab \u8220"Buy\u8221" a clue. Sometimes players are at a lost or think they might have missed something. This gives them the option to find that detail that they would have otherwise missed.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Hero Points are earned through superior play and given as an incentive by the GM to help encourage the style of action desired in a game. If playing a gritty western and the character makes a clever quip using the \u8220"in-game\u8221" jargon that makes everyone laugh without disrupting play that may be worth a Hero Point. Unless completely against the nature of the game played, extremely clever ideas and grand heroic deeds should always be rewarded.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Healing\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Natural Healing:} If a wounded character rests he is allowed a Might check and if successful heals a wound level. The frequency of the check depends on the severity of the character's wounds.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Assisted Healing:} Characters with the {\i Medicine} skill can attempt to help others heal more quickly. A skill check may be made once per day for each patient treated. On a successful roll, the patient heals one wound level.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2199\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4319\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5968\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8481
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\i Wound Level}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\i Frequency (N. Healing)}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\i Might Difficulty}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\i Assisted Healing Difficulty}\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2199\cellx4319\cellx5968\cellx8481
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Stunned\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 minute\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 automatic\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Easy\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2199\cellx4319\cellx5968\cellx8481
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Wounded\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3 days\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Moderate\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2199\cellx4319\cellx5968\cellx8481
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Severely Wounded\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3 days\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Moderate\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2199\cellx4319\cellx5968\cellx8481
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Incapacitated\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 weeks\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Difficult\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2199\cellx4319\cellx5968\cellx8481
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Mortally Wounded\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 5 weeks\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 9\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Very Difficult\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel0 \b \fs36 Combat\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Why two rules?\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The Fast Static Combat is the preferred method of combat resolution, while players familiar with OpenD6 may be more comfortable with Traditional OpenD6 Combat.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Fast Static Combat reduces the number of die rolls without significantly altering the results compared to Traditional OpenD6 Combat.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Minimal OpenD6 supports both flavors so you can easily use whichever method you prefer.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Fast Static Combat\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Attacking a Target\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The Target Number, or TN, is the number needed to successfully hit the target. The base target number on an attack is based on the target's static defense score.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Range:} Add the range modifier to the Dodge score in all cases (Point Blank/Hand-to-Hand \u8722 ?5, Medium +5, Long +10). See the sample gear list for ranges.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Cover:} If the target is behind at least 50% cover, add +5 to the Target Number. Add +10 for 75% cover. It's impossible to hit a target behind 100% cover. Darkness can also be considered as cover at the GM's whim.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Static Defenses\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 In the simplified combat system characters precalculate their Dodge, Block, Parry, and Soak prior to the game. This static number becomes the attacker's TN modified as noted above. To calculate each simply multiply the number of dice a character has in the relevant skill by 3 and add any pips to the total. Then note it down on the character sheet. For example, Sir Baelen has a {\i Sword} skill of 5D+1. His static Parry score would become 16 ((5 x 3)+1).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Block} = ({\i Brawling} skill dice x 3) + pips.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Dodge} = ({\i Dodge} skill dice x 3) + pips.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Parry} = (Weapon skill dice x 3) + pips.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Soak} = (Might attribute dice x 3) + pips plus armor value + any magical, super-tech, or other AV bonus.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Full Dodge:} If the character does nothing except dodge until his next turn they will add 10 to their Dodge score, and apply range and cover as usual. This result is useful against any number of attacks.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Resisting Damage\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 When a target has been hit, the attacker rolls damage and the target's Soak score is subtracted from the damage. The player or GM then checks the \u8220"Wound Level\u8221" chart below to see how badly the target was wounded.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Traditional OpenD6 Combat\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Attacking A Target\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The Target Number, or TN is the number needed to successfully hit the target. The base target number on an attack is 10. This is modified by range, by cover, by block, by parry, or by dodging (see below).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Range:} The ranged attack modifier applies to the base TN or defender's {\i Dodge} roll (Point Blank/Hand-to-Hand \u8722 ?5, Medium +5, Long +10). See the sample gear list for ranges.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Cover:} If the target is behind at least 50% cover, add +5 to the TN. Add +10 for 75% cover. It's impossible to hit a target behind 100% cover. Darkness can also be considered as cover at the GM's whim.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Defensive Options\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The defender may optionally choose to Dodge, Block, or Parry when attacked, however if the defense was not stated when the character first declared their actions for the turn they suffer an additional \u8722 ?1D penalty until their next turn.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Block/Parry:} When attacked by a brawling or melee weapon, the defender may choose to Block or Parry, both incur a reflex penalty (see below). The defender rolls his {\i Brawling} skill, or weapon skill if armed, and this becomes the TN the attacker must score to hit the character. The result of this roll is used even if it is less than what the TN would have been had the defender not blocked! If a weapon parries a brawling attack the attacker takes the damage of the weapon!\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Reflexive Dodge:} The character tries to get out of the way of the attack. Roll the defender's {\i Dodge} skill and use that instead of any other TN. (Range and Cover still apply.) The defender suffers a penalty of \u8722 ?1D to all actions until their next turn.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Full Dodge:} The character does nothing except dodge until his next turn. Roll {\i Dodge}, add 10, and apply range and cover as usual. This result is useful against any number of attacks.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Resisting Damage\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 When a target has been hit, the attacker rolls damage while the target rolls their Might adding any armor value bonuses. The total of the target's Might roll is subtracted from the attacker's damage total. The player or GM then checks the Wound Level chart to see how badly the target was wounded.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel0 \b \fs36 Wounds\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Wound Level Chart\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2760\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6840
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Wound Level}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Dmg Total* \u8805 ? Res Total by:}\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2760\cellx6840
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Unharmed\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0 or less\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2760\cellx6840
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Stunned\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\u8211-3\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2760\cellx6840
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Wounded\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4\u8211-8\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2760\cellx6840
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Severely Wounded**\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4\u8211-8\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2760\cellx6840
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Incapacitated\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 9\u8211-12\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2760\cellx6840
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Mortally Wounded\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 13\u8211-15\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2760\cellx6840
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Dead\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 16+\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b * Note:} Any additional damage less than or equal to the character's current level moves him up by one level.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b ** Note:} A character is Severely Wounded if the result is between 4 and 8 and he already has the Wounded level.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Wound Level Effects\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Stunned:} \u8722 ?1D for all remaining actions this round and next round.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Wounded:} \u8722 ?1D to all actions until healed.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Severely Wounded:} \u8722 ?2D on all actions until healed.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Incapacitated:} As a free action before losing consciousness, the character may try to stay up with a Moderate (15) {\i Stamina} roll. If successful, he may continue to act, but with a \u8722 ?3D penalty. If he fails, he is knocked out for 10D minutes.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Mortally Wounded:} The character is near death and knocked unconscious with no chance to keep up. Roll the character's Might each round, the character finally dies if the roll is less than the number of minutes he's been at this level.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Dead:} The character has perished.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel0 \b \fs36 Vehicles\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 All vehicles from ancient chariots to futuristic starships are defined by a common set of statistics. The following stats help the GM and players quickly resolve all actions related to vehicles.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Skill:} What skill is used to drive/pilot it.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Scale:} The size of the vehicle.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Body:} Used to resist damage.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Maneuverability (MNV):} How easy it is to handle. This gives a bonus on {\i Drive} and {\i Pilot} skill rolls.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Move:} How fast it can travel.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Crew:} The number needed to successfully operate the vehicle.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Passengers (Psg):} Non-crew capacity.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Weapons:} Any armaments mounted on the vehicle.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Cargo:} How much stuff it can carry.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Vehicle Combat\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Some vehicles have weapons. Unless specified in their descriptions they are considered to be the same scale as the vehicle. Attacks are resolved in the same manner as character vs. character combat with the only difference being the character uses their {\i Drive/Pilot} skill in place of {\i Dodge} to avoid being hit. If the hit was successful the character would roll the vehicle's Body to resist the damage and consult the following chart to determine how severe the damage is:\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3600\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8040
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\i Damage Rolled}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\i Effect}\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx3600\cellx8040
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Damage Roll \u8805 ? Body Roll\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Temporary Effect (one round)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx3600\cellx8040
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Damage Roll \u8805 ? 2 \u215 ? Body Roll\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Permanent Effect (repair required)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx3600\cellx8040
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Damage Roll \u8805 ? 3 \u215 ? Body Roll\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Permanent Effect (part destroyed)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Once the severity of the damage is determined the GM may roll randomly on the following chart or use common sense to determine which part is damaged.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1440\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5160
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\i Roll 1D}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\i Effect}\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1440\cellx5160
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Lose 1D from Maneuverability\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1440\cellx5160
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\u8211-3\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Random System Damaged\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1440\cellx5160
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4\u8211-5\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Structural Damage\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Effects of Damage\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Maneuverability:} Each time this is affected the vehicle loses 1D. This can go negative becoming a penalty to the driver's skill roll.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b System Damaged:} Randomly select a vehicle's system and it either becomes broken or loses 1D from its rating (if applicable). Examples include communications/radio, sensors, shielding, sail, rigging, armor, etc.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Structural Damage:} The vehicle receives one wound level. Treat these like character wound levels. Mortally wounded vehicles stop running and Dead vehicles are considered destroyed.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Ramming\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 When vehicles are at short range, a pursuer may try to ram. To successfully ram the pilot needs to roll higher than the target's {\i Pilot} skill check. If successful both vehicles take damage equal to to the body of attacking plus relative move dice.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Multiple Weapons on Vehicles\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 When vehicles have more than one weapon of a single type, they can be fired as a single salvo. This requires a successful {\i Command} skill roll with the difficulty based on the number of guns being combined. Each doubling of the number of weapons combined increases the damage by one pip.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Chases\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 When attempting to overtake or outrun an opponent the GM determines what range you are at (Short/Medium/Long). Each turn each vehicle makes a {\i Drive/Pilot} check, with the vehicle's Move dice granting a bonus. The higher roll either closes or increases the distance 1 range as desired. If reduced below Short you catch up, if increased beyond Long you escape.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Repairing Vehicles\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Characters may repair vehicles using their skills. The difficulty and cost is determined on the following chart. The cost is based on the price of a new vehicle.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2160\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6480\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\i Dice Lost}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\i Difficulty}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\i Cost}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\i Time Needed}\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Easy\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 10%\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 hour\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2D\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Moderate\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 15%\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4 hours\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3D+\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Difficult\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 20%\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 day\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Vehicle Movement\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Move dice represent relative speed between vehicles of similar types. Vehicles are divided into four broad categeries including Primitive Craft/Muscle Powered, Motorized Ground and Water Craft, Aircraft, and Spacecraft. If vehicles of different categories must compare speeds, such as a fighter chasing a tank, the faster vehicle is granted bonus move dice based on the difference in speed factors in the following chart:\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4200\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5760
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\i Speed Factor}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\i Modifier}\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4200\cellx5760
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Primitive Craft / Muscle Powered\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0D\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4200\cellx5760
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Motorized Ground / Water Craft\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2D\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4200\cellx5760
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Aircraft\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 5D\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4200\cellx5760
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Spacecraft\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 10D\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Weapon Ranges in Space\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Space is big and empty. Guns shoot great distances and ships are extremely fast. The ranges given are abstract units that are defined by the needs of the individual game.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Vehicle Costs\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1775\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8639
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Cost}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Description}\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1775\cellx8639
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 $\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Trivial cost.\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1775\cellx8639
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 $$\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Affordable to most.\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1775\cellx8639
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 $$$\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Affordable to the very wealthy, governments, and corps.\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1775\cellx8639
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 $$$$\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Only the richest individuals, most governments.\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1775\cellx8639
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 $$$$$\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Only large governments and megacorps can purchase.\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1775\cellx8639
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 $$$$$$\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 World governments and star empires only.\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Sample Fantasy Vehicles\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Air Ship\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i A magic flying ship.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Cost:} $$$$\line {\b Scale:} +4D\line {\b Skill:} Pilot\line {\b Body:} 2D\line {\b MNV:} 0D\line {\b Move:} 1D\line {\b Crew:} 4\line {\b Psg:} 12\line {\b Cargo:} 2 tons\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Automaton\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i A steam powered golem.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Cost:} $$$$\line {\b Scale:} +2D\line {\b Skill:} Command\line {\b Body:} 5D\line {\b MNV:} 0D\line {\b Move:} 1D\line {\b Crew:} 1\line {\b Psg:} 0\line {\b Weapons:} Mace (3D), Range: melee.\line {\b Cargo:} None\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Galleon\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i A pirate ship yoho.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Cost:} $$\line {\b Scale:} +4D\line {\b Skill:} Sailing\line {\b Body:} 4D\line {\b MNV:} 0D\line {\b Move:} 2D\line {\b Crew:} 70\line {\b Psg:} 30\line {\b Weapons:} 16 cannons (4D/ea), 8 cannons (2D+2/ea) Range: 10/30/50. May only fire 50% of guns at one target once every three turns.\line {\b Cargo:} 15 tons\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Small Ship\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i A sloop or pinnace.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Cost:} $$\line {\b Scale:} +4D\line {\b Skill:} Sailing\line {\b Body:} 2D+2\line {\b MNV:} 1D\line {\b Move:} 2D+2\line {\b Crew:} 12\line {\b Psg:} 8\line {\b Weapons:} 6 cannons (2d+2/ea), Range: 10/30/50. May only fire 50% of guns at one target once every three turns.\line {\b Cargo:} 5 tons\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Sample Modern Vehicles\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Car\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Vroom, vroom.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Cost:} $$\line {\b Scale:} +2D\line {\b Skill:} Driving\line {\b Body:} 2D\line {\b MNV:} 1D\line {\b Move:} 2D+1\line {\b Crew:} 1\line {\b Psg:} 4\line {\b Cargo:} 500 lbs.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Fighter Jet\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Sate of the art killing machine.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Cost:} $$$$$\line {\b Scale:} +6D\line {\b Skill:} Pilot\line {\b Body:} 2D\line {\b MNV:} 3D\line {\b Move:} 3D\line {\b Crew:} 1 or 2\line {\b Psg:} 0\line {\b Weapons:} Weapons: Guns (2D), range: 30/50/100; 4 missiles (4D/ea), range: \u189 ? mile/2 miles/5 miles.\line {\b Cargo:} None\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Motorcycle\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Darling Heavyson Fatboy.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Cost:} $\line {\b Scale:} +2D\line {\b Skill:} Motorcycle\line {\b Body:} 1D+2\line {\b MNV:} 2D\line {\b Move:} 2D+2\line {\b Crew:} 1\line {\b Psg:} 1\line {\b Cargo:} None\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Sports Car\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i The Lilith Novum.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Cost:} $$$\line {\b Scale:} +2D\line {\b Skill:} Driving\line {\b Body:} 2D\line {\b MNV:} 2D\line {\b Move:} 3D\line {\b Crew:} 1\line {\b Psg:} 1\line {\b Cargo:} 200 lbs\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Tank\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Adams Main Battle Tank.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Cost:} $$$$\line {\b Scale:} +4D\line {\b Skill:} Driving\line {\b Body:} 6D\line {\b MNV:} 1D\line {\b Move:} 2D\line {\b Crew:} 3\line {\b Psg:} 1\line {\b Weapons:} BFG (character scale, see gear); Main Gun (6D), Range: \u189 ? mile/1 mile/2 miles.\line {\b Cargo:} 500 lbs\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Sample Sci-Fi Vehicles\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Air Cycle\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i The Elsner Skywing.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Cost:} $\line {\b Scale:} +2D\line {\b Skill:} Pilot\line {\b Body:} 1D+2\line {\b MNV:} 2D\line {\b Move:} 3D\line {\b Crew:} 1\line {\b Psg:} 1\line {\b Cargo:} None\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Capital Ship\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Galaxy Class Destroyer.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Cost:} $$$$$$\line {\b Scale:} +12D\line {\b Skill:} Command\line {\b Body:} 6D\line {\b MNV:} 0D\line {\b Move:} 1D\line {\b Crew:} 5,000\line {\b Psg:} 500\line {\b Weapons:} Weapons: 100 AA Guns (3D, Fighter scale), Range 1/3/5; 32 Plasma Cannons (4D+1), Range 5/10/15; 6 100 Megaton Warheads (8D), Range 15. Only 50% of guns or cannons can be on one target at any time.\line {\b Cargo:} 100 kilotons + 30 star fighters\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Mecha\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i The Spartan 300.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Cost:} $$$$\line {\b Scale:} +4D\line {\b Skill:} Mecha\line {\b Body:} 5D+1\line {\b MNV:} 1D\line {\b Move:} 2D\line {\b Crew:} 1\line {\b Psg:} 0\line {\b Weapons:} Weapons: Punch (5D, melee); Arm Gun (4D), Range: 400 yards/\u189 ? mile/1 mile.\line {\b Cargo:} None\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Star Fighter\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i The Adder Mk II.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Cost:} $$$\line {\b Scale:} +6D\line {\b Skill:} Pilot\line {\b Body:} 2D+1\line {\b MNV:} 3D+2\line {\b Move:} 4D\line {\b Crew:} 1 + 1 robot\line {\b Psg:} 0\line {\b Weapons:} Twin Guns (4D), Range: 1/3/5\line {\b Cargo:} None\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Star Yacht\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i The choice of beginner smugglers.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Cost:} $$$$\line {\b Scale:} +6D\line {\b Skill:} Pilot\line {\b Body:} 3D+1\line {\b MNV:} 1D\line {\b Move:} 3D\line {\b Crew:} 2\line {\b Psg:} 8\line {\b Cargo:} 50 tons\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel0 \b \fs36 The Simple Magic System\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Call it Ki, Chi, Sorcery, Latent Psi, etc; it's all just different flavors of magic. Magic lets you break the rules of the universe in creative ways. Some games let you use flashy spells; others require you to use more subtle effects. Speak with your GM about the limits of magic in his game.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Access to Magic\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 In some games, none may use magic, in others everyone can. The most common option is a middle ground that requires the character to start the game with the Sorcerer esoteric perk.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Casting Spells\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 All spells have a target number (TN) listed in their description. Sorcerers roll {\i Magic} to determine success. Only one spell may be cast per turn. Success on the roll mean the spell is cast, see each spell description for the exact effect achieved. On a failed roll, the Sorcerer suffers a \u8722 ?1D penalty to their {\i Magic} skill. Further failures increase the penalty. One hour of rest with no interruption removes all penalties.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Spells Requiring Multiple Actions\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Some spells require additional actions to be taken after casting. For example, thrown spells require the Sorcerer to cast the spell and then hit the target by making a {\i Throwing} skill check. The Sorcerer may wait until the next turn to throw the spell or they may opt to suffer the penalty for multiple actions and do them all in one turn.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Concentration (CONC)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Some spells require the Sorcerer to maintain concentration for the spell to remain in effect. Each spell maintained counts as one action.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Beginning Spells & Learning More\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The character knows two spells for each die allocated to {\i Magic} at character creation. Learning a new spell costs 2 CP.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Magic Perks\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Characters that are able to learn the {\i Magic} skill may also purchase the following Perks.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Familiar (1):} The character has an imp for a companion. The familiar can fly at a rate of 60 ft each turn, can talk, and has 1D in each attribute. He also has 3D in skills. He can't cast spells, but he can turn into a black cat or other small animal at will.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Totem Spirit (1):} The character has a spiritual advisor that speaks to him in his dreams or visions. This spirit will likely have a somewhat alien perspective on matters, and certainly won't always just tell the character everything he knows. Totem Spirits employ riddles, puzzles, and enjoy sending the character off on ridiculous quests; but they also have insight and know things man was never meant to know.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Magic Complications\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The GM may also allow special complications for magic capable characters.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Demonic Pact:} The character has allied himself with a demon. It tends to impress all the wrong people. You earn bonus CP any time this complicates your life.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b White Wizard:} You can't harm anyone with your magic. Ever. Earn 1 bonus CP every session.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Sorcerer's Tools\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Some special enchanted items are of use only to those capable of using spells. Activating the bonus granted by an item does not count as an action. When found a sorcerer must attune the item before he can use it. This requires the passing of three days while keeping the item close.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b The Cloak} grants +2D to the {\i Magic} skill test required to use the Fly and Teleport spells.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b The Crystal Ball} grants +3D to the {\i Magic} skill test required to use the Clairvoyance and Divination spells.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b The Magic Wand} grants +1D to any {\i Magic} skill test when used for the spell the wand was designed for.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b The Spell Staff} grants +1D to {\i Magic} once each day.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Making Sorcerer's Tools\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Sorcerers may construct their own tools; this requires time, money, and CP. During the construction of the item the sorcerer must work for twelve hours each day. If any days are skipped all effort is lost. At the end of the process he rolls a {\i Magic} check vs. the TN listed below. If he fails all effort and money is wasted but no CP were spent.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1728\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3456\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5184\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6912\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\i Item}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\i Cost}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\i Time}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\i CP}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\i TN}\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Cloak\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 $$$\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4 weeks\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 20\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 30\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Crystal Ball\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 $$$$\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 8 weeks\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 30\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 35\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Magic Wand\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 $$\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 weeks\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 25\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Spell Staff\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 $$$\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4 weeks\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 15\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 30\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Spell Books\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 When learning new spells accessing another sorcerer's spell book reduces the cost to 1 CP for any spell it contains. A spell can contain up to six spells. Sorcerers normally create when they are learning new spells. Afterwards they no longer need the spell book. Some keep them for apprentices, sentimental value, or fear of somehow forgetting the spells they have mastered. Others keep their books in case then need to sell them for money.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 The Grimoire\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Animal Growth\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 TN: 23, Duration: 1 hour, Range: 120 feet, Resisted: None\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Increase the scale of a normal animal by one level.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Animate Dead\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 TN: 31, Duration: Permanent, Range: Touch, Resisted: None\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The caster touches a dead humanoid giving it unlife as a zombie or skeleton depending the corpse's condition. Undead created this way can be controlled by the caster's {\i Command} skill. When destroyed they crumble to dust.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Beast Tongue\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 TN: 19, Duration: Concentration, Range: Self, Resisted: None\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The caster can talk to animals.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Bless\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 TN: 19, Duration: 1 hour, Range: 30 foot radius, Resisted: None\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 All allies within the area of effect receive a +2 bonus to all rolls.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Charm\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 TN: 15, Duration: Concentration, Range: Self, Resisted: None\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 This spell grants a +4D bonus to all Charm skills.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Clairvoyance\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 TN: 23, Duration: Concentration, Range: 300 feet, Resisted: None\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The caster's senses leave his own body and project outward to any point within 300 feet. The caster may move the area he perceives at the rate of 10 feet per turn. While in this state, he cannot take any physical action and any damage done to him will end the spell.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Conjure Elemental\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 TN: 31, Duration: Permanent, Range: Zero, Resisted: None\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Sorcerers may summon only one elemental per day by using this spell. The caster also needs a large quantity of the type of element on hand they wish to conjure. For example, a bonfire for a fire elemental or a well for a water elemental. Controlling the elemental requires use of the {\i Command} skill. Uncontrolled elementals will attack everyone, including the conjurer.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Control Weather\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 TN: 35, Duration: Concentration, Range: \u189 ? mile radius\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The caster dictates the weather in the area affected. He can make it hot, cold, snowy, rainy, foggy, or calm as desired.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Curse\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 TN: 15 + Resist Roll, Duration: Permanent, Range: Touch, Resisted: Charm\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The target of this spell suffers some negative effect determined by the caster. Examples include being struck mute until hearing a certain word, deafness or blindness, inability to run or cross running water. This spell is open ended but the GM has final say on all effects. {\i Dispel Magic} will remove any curse.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Dark Vision\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 TN: 23, Duration: 1 hour, Range: Touch, Resisted: None\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The target can see 60 feet in the dark.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Death Spell\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 TN: 35, Duration: Instant, Range: 30 feet, Resisted: Special\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If successfully cast, the Sorcerer rolls his {\i Magic} skill without his Wit attribute for damage. The target resists using only Might. For example, Melkot casts {\i Death Spell} on Tamore. Melkot has a Wit of 4D and 10D in {\i Magic}. Melkot would roll 6D for damage (10D \u8211- 4D) and Tamore would resist with his Might.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Dispel Magic\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 TN: Special, Duration: Permanent, Range: 30 feet, Resisted: None\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The caster undoes any single spell or permanent magical effect. The target number is five higher than the spell or effect being targeted. Some things cannot be dispelled, such as healing and resurrection.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Divination\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 TN: Special, Duration: Concentration, Range: Self, Resisted: None\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The Sorcerer can attempt to see the future or the past. The immediate future or past normally has a TN of 25 while more distant events have a higher TN. For instance, seeing a year into the future may have a TN of 45 while a year into the past is only 35. If attempting to divine about specific objects or people that are not present, the difficulty goes up by 10 or more depending on closeness of relationship to the Sorcerer.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Earthquake\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 TN: 39, Duration: 1 round, Range: 200 feet, Resisted: None\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 An intense tremor rips the ground in a 50 foot radius from the chosen epicenter. This collapses structures, opens cracks in the ground, and more. While the effect lasts creatures on the ground cannot move, attack, or cast spells. Any creature caught inside a collapsing structure must resist 6D damage.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 ESP\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 TN: 15 + Resist Roll, Duration: Concentration, Range: 50 feet, Resisted: Charm\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 When cast you can hear the thoughts of any one person; language is no barrier.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Fly\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 TN: 23 (or 15), Duration: Concentration, Range: Self, Resisted: None\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 While maintained the Sorcerer can fly at a rate of 90 feet per round. If the spell ends before landing the character will float to the ground. The character may hover and carry up to his own weight aloft. If the character only wishes to levitate vertically the TN of the spell is 15.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Growth\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 TN: 23 + Special, Duration: 10 Rounds, Range: Self, Resisted: None\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The caster grows. Each scale increase adds +10 to the TN. For example, for a human sorcerer to grow to the size of a dragon would require 2 scale increases making the TN 43.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Hasten\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 TN: 23, Duration: 5 rounds, Range: touch, Resisted: None\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Targets have their multiple action penalty reduced by 1D. The effects of multiple Hasten spells don't stack.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Heal\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 TN: Special, Duration: Instant, Range: Touch, Resisted: None\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The Sorcerer must concentrate for 6 turns before casting this spell. The TN is 15 when attempting to heal anyone wounded or severely wounded, 19 for incapacitated characters, and 23 for the mortally wounded. Success reduces the wound level by one. If {\i Heal} is used more than once per day on a target, the target number of additional castings increases by +10.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Illusions\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 TN: Special + Resist Roll, Duration: Concentration, Range: 50 foot radius, Resisted: Wit\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Illusions create false perceptions in the minds of the effected. The target number is 15 plus 2 per person after the first targeted plus their individual Resist Roll. Compare results for each person individually to see if they are affected. GMs may wish to roll for the highest Resist first and if they fail consider all to have failed.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Invisibility\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 TN: 27, Duration: 1 hour, Range: Touch, Resisted: None\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 This spell renders the target almost unseen granting a +5D bonus to {\i Stealth}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Light\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 TN: 15, Duration: 1 hour, Range: 100 feet, Resisted: None\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The targeted location or object glows as brightly as a torch.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Lightning Bolt\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 TN: 23, Duration: Instant, Range: 150 feet, Resisted: None\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The caster throws lightning. This requires the use of the {\i Throwing} skill. If the caster attempts to throw it the same round it is cast the multiple action penalty applies to both the casting and throwing of the spell. The caster may also choose to throw the lightning the round after casting to avoid the penalty. However if he waits any longer the effect dissipates. Targets may make a {\i Dodge} roll to avoid being hit. A successful hit inflicts 5D damage. Armor does not protect against {\i Lightning Bolt}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Paralysis\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 TN: 15 + Resist Roll, Duration: 1 hour, Range: 150, Resisted: Might\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The target becomes paralyzed, freezing in place.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Petrify\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 TN: 25 + Resist Roll, Duration: Permanent, Range: 100 feet, Resisted: Might\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Turns one creature into a statue include all gear and any items held. {\i Dispel Magic} will return the target to their normal state.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Possession\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 TN: 25 + Resist Roll, Duration: Concentration (special), Range: 500 feet, Resisted: Charm\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The sorcerer takes control of the physical body of a single character or creature. The sorcerer may make the possessed being take any physical action it is capable of, but can't make it use {\i Magic} or any Perk. The possessed being uses its own Might and Agility, but skills depend on those of the sorcerer. The possessed may contest the sorcerer for control each round.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Resist Elements\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 TN: 19, Duration: 1 hour, Range: 30 feet, Resisted: None\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 When cast, the Sorcerer selects one element such as fire, cold, or electricity, and the target is granted a +1D bonus to resist damage from that source.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Resurrection\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 TN: 60, Duration: Permanent, Range: touch, Resisted: None\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A body which has been dead for less than one month may be restored to life; but no one who has died from old age can be raised. Whether or not the casting of this spell is successful the Sorcerer's {\i Magic} skill is reduced by 3D for one day.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 See Magic Aura\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 TN: 15, Duration: Concentration, Range: 30 feet, Resisted: None\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The caster can see a magical glow on anything enchanted.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Shape Change\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 TN: 15, Duration: Concentration, Range: 30 feet, Resisted: None\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The caster transforms into any creature (not specific individuals) gaining its physical attributes. Spells may not be cast while changed. The TN is increased by +10 per increase in scale.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Slumber\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 TN: 10 + Resist Roll, Duration: 1 hour, Range: 30 foot radius, Resisted: Wit\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The Sorcerer can affect as many targets as he has dice in {\i Magic}. Targets resist individually, falling into a deep sleep on failure.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Still Mind\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 TN: 43, Duration: Concentration, Range: Self, Resisted: None\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The Sorcerer is protected from all spells that influence, detect, or read emotions and thoughts.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Telekinesis\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 TN: 31 + Special, Duration: Concentration, Range: 150 Feet, Resisted: None / Might\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The caster moves up to 50 lbs per die in {\i Magic} up to 30 feet per round. Living beings may resist using Might.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Teleport\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 TN: Special, Duration: Instant, Range: 10 foot radius, Resisted: None\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Sorcerers instantly transport themselves or other beings to a designated destination at any distance. Unwilling subjects cannot be teleported. The base TN is 30 for one target, plus 5 more for each additional target. A caster may not teleport to any place he has not seen before.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Enchanted Items\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Scrolls\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 These are written spells nearly ready to cast. They allow a caster who doesn't know a spell to use it once before it burns to ash. The character must be able to use spells to read a scroll.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Potions\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Distilled arcane power. The magic is released when consumed.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b A Potion of Healing} automatically heals a single wound level.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b A Potion of Skill} grant's +2D to a selected skill for ten minutes. A different variant of the potion exists for each skill.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b A Potion of Changing} will {\i Shape Change} the character into any one predetermined form. The effect lasts one hour.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Enchanted Arms and Armor\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 These grant a bonus or have a unique effect when wielded.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b The Axe of Dwarf Mercy} deals an additional +1D damage when striking Goblins or Orcs.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b The Valiant Sword} grants its wielder an additional +1D to {\i Command} allied troops.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b The Shield of Faith} grants its wielder +1D to resist any magic.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Other Items\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Cloak of Stealth} ({\i Stealth} +1D)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Flying Carpet} (moves 90 feet per round)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Ring of Slyness} ({\i Persuasion} +1D)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel0 \b \fs36 Sample Characters by Genre\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The characters presented below are sometimes less powerful than starting player characters, sometimes more. Here is a scale to help determine potency:\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1560\cellx5400
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 *\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Not a threat usually.\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1560\cellx5400
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 **\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Minor threat only in a group.\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1560\cellx5400
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ***\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Credible threat.\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1560\cellx5400
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 ****\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Watch out, Heroes!\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1560\cellx5400
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 *****\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Bold or foolish to even try.\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Skills listed in each entry include the base attribute, but effects of character scale haven't been prefigured. All attributes, skills, and gear are just for typical or average characters. Superior and inferior individuals exist of every type.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Static defenses are precalculated with any skills listed. Soak is listed as X(Y) where X is the base soak value and Y includes any armor or other bonus listed. If a bonus die is granted to {\i Brawling}, {\i Dodge}, or melee skills simply add 3 per die to the static score.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 While listed by genre type, these are only rough guidelines. If you need a bloodthirsty alien race for a space opera campaign, take the orc template, change its name to Xargon, arm them with laser rifles and a 4D skill with them. Likewise, if you need a few brooding emo vampires, take the vampire template as written, give him hair product, eye make-up, a trendy wardrobe, a tattoo, an attitude, and go team Edgar.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Note:} Animals have a Wit score of 0D due to their limited intelligence. Even very clever animals have this restriction.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 All Genres\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Average Human\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i \u8220"Everyman.\u8221"}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Potency: *, Scale: 0D\line Might: 2D, Agility: 2D, Wit: 2D, Charm: 2D\line Skills: Any three at +1D each.\line Gear: As needed by profession.\line Static: Dodge 6, Soak 6\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Ape\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i The Great Ape or Yeti.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Potency: ***, Scale: 0D\line Might: 4D+2, Agility: 2D+1, Wit: 0D, Charm: 1D\line Skills: Acrobatics 3D+1, Brawling 6D+2, Stealth 4D+1\line Static: Dodge 7, Block 20, Soak 14\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Bear\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Black, brown, or grizzly.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Potency: ***, Scale: 0D\line Might: 5D+1, Wit: 0D, Agility: 2D, Charm: 1D\line Skills: Brawling 6D (claws: 6D+1 damage)\line Static: Dodge 6, Block 18, Soak 16\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Dog\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Man's best friend.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Potency: **, Scale: 0D\line Might: 2D, Agility: 2D+1, Wit: 0D, Charm: 1D\line Static: Dodge 7, Soak 6\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Elk\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Any large herbivore.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Potency: **, Scale: 0D\line Might: 4D+2, Agility: 1D+2, Wit: 0D, Charm: 1D\line Static: Dodge 5, Soak 14\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Elephant\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i They never forget.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Potency: **, Scale: +2D\line Might: 4D+1, Agility: 1D, Wit: 0D, Charm: 1D\line Static: Dodge 3, Soak 13\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Horse\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Saddle up.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Potency: **, Scale: 0D\line Might: 4D+2, Agility: 2D+2, Wit: 0D, Charm: 1D\line Static: Dodge 8, Soak 14\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Monkey\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i A pirate's best friend.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Potency: *, Scale: 0D\line Might: 1D, Agility: 4D+2, Wit: 0D, Charm: 2D+1\line Skills: Acrobatics 6D+2, Dodge 6D+2\line Learns simple tricks more easily.\line Static: Dodge 20, Soak 3\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Snake\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i An archaeologist's nightmare.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Potency: *, Scale: 0D\line Might: 1D+2, Agility: 3D+1, Wit: 0D, Charm: 1D\line Skills: Brawling 3D, Stealth 4D\line Special: Target's bitten by a snake must roll pass a Moderate Might roll or be poisoned. Poisoned victims suffer 2D to 4D damage on the species of snake.\line Static: Dodge 10, Soak 5\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Tiger\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Jungle cats, ho!}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Potency: **, Scale: 0D\line Might: 3D+1, Agility: 3D+2, Wit: 0D, Charm: 1D\line Skills: Brawling 5D+1, Stealth 4D+2\line Static: Dodge 11, Block 16, Soak 10\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Wolf\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i They hunt in packs.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Potency: **, Scale: 0D\line Might: 3D+2, Agility: 2D+1, Wit: 0D, Charm: 1D\line Skills: Brawling 4D+2, Dodge: 4D+1\line Static: Dodge 13, Block 14, Soak 11\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Modern Stock Characters\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Confidence Man\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i \u8220"Have I got a deal for you.\u8221"}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Potency: ***, Scale: 0D\line Might: 2D, Agility: 2D+1, Wit: 3D+1, Charm: 3D+1\line Skills: Dodge 3D+1, Persuasion 5D+2, Seduce 5D\line Gear: Counterfeit money, fake ID, stolen credit card.\line Static: Dodge 10, Block 6, Parry 6, Soak 6\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Criminal (Thug)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Mooks!}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Might: 2D+2, Agility: 2D+1, Wit: 1D+2, Charm: 1D+1\line Skills: Brawling 3D, Pistol 3D\line Gear: Crowbar, heavy pistol, ski mask.\line Static: Dodge 7, Block 9, Soak 8\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Ninja\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Agents of the shadows.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Potency: ****, Scale: 0D\line Might: 3D+1, Agility: 4D, Wit: 2D+2, Charm: 2D\line Skills: Brawling 5D, Dodge 5D, Stealth 5D, Sword 5D+1\line Gear: Sword (6D).\line Static: Dodge 15, Block 15, Parry 16, Soak 7\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Policeman\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i To serve and protect.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Potency: **, Scale: 0D\line Might: 2D+2, Agility: 2D+1, Wit: 2D, Charm: 2D\line Skills: Brawling 3D, Pistol 3D, Search 3D\line Gear: Armor vest, pistol, handcuffs.\line Static: Dodge 7, Block 9, Soak 8(11)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Soldier\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i The few, the proud.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Potency: ***, Scale: 0D\line Might: 3D+1, Agility: 2D+1, Wit: 2D, Charm: 2D\line Skills: Dodge 3D+1, Rifle 4D+1\line Gear: Armor jack (+6), rifle.\line Static: Dodge 10, Block 10, Soak 10(16)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Spy\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Licensed to kill.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Potency: ****, Scale: 0D\line Might: 2D+2, Agility: 3D+1, Wit: 3D, Charm: 3D\line Skills: Dodge 5D+1, Pistol 5D+1, Stealth 4D\line Gear: Camera, passport, pistol, secret phone, sports car, suicide pill.\line Static: Dodge 16, Block 9, Soak 8\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Sci-Fi Stock Characters\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Apprentice-Mystic\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Devoted Pupil.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Potency: ***, Scale: 0D\line Might: 3D, Agility: 3D+2, Wit: 3D, Charm: 2D+1\line Skills: Dodge 4D+2, Magic 5D, Sword 4D\line Perks: Sorcerer.\line Spells: Charm, ESP, Hasten, See Magic Aura.\line Gear: Plasma sword.\line Static: Dodge 14, Block 9, Parry 12, Soak 9\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Cybercop\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Stand down citizen.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Potency: ***, Scale: 0D\line Might: 4D, Agility: 3D+1, Wit: 2D+1, Charm: 2D+1\line Skills: Brawling 5D, Dodge 4D+1, Pistol 5D+1, Rifle 4D+1\line Perks: Cybernetics (dermal armor +3), cyber holster in leg).\line Gear: Armor jack (+6), heavy pistol, rifle.\line Static: Dodge 13, Block 15, Parry 12, Soak 12(21)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Kid Genius\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i You didn't know that?! Hah!}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Potency: **, Scale: 0D\line Might: 1D+1, Agility: 3D, Wit: 3D+2, Charm: 2D\line Skills: Dodge 5D, Science 4D+2, Throwing 4D\line Gear: Baseball, pocket knife, galaxy guide.\line Static: Dodge 15, Block 4, Parry 4, Soak 4\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Knight-Mystic\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Monastic warriors of truth.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Potency: ****, Scale: 0D\line Might: 3D, Agility: 3D+2, Wit: 3D, Charm: 2D+1\line Skills: Courage 5D, Diplomacy 5D+1, Dodge 6D+1, Magic 8D, Sword 6D+2\line Perks: Sorcerer.\line Spells: Charm, Clairvoyance, Dark Vision, Divination, ESP, Hasten, Resist Elements, See Magic Aura, Telekinesis.\line Gear: Plasma sword.\line Static: Dodge 19, Block 9, Parry 20, Soak 9\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Reptoid Pilot\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Smuggler with 2 hearts of gold.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Potency: ***, Scale: 0D\line Might: 4D, Agility: 3D+1, Wit: 2D+1, Charm: 2D+1\line Skills: Dodge 5D+1, Stealth 4D, Pistol 4D, Pilot 5D\line Perks: Reptoid\line Comp: Unlucky in Money (huge debt)\line Gear: Plasma pistol, star yacht.\line Static: Dodge 16, Block 12, Parry 12, Soak 12(13)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Robot Mechanic\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Beep. I mean yes sir.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Potency: *, Scale: 0D\line Might: 3D, Agility: 1D+2, Wit: 4D, Charm: 1D+1\line Skills: Navigation 5D, Pick Lock 5D, Repair 6D\line Perks: Robot, Built-In Tools (drill, extinguisher, oiler, saw, spanner, spot welder, magnetic feet)\line Comp: Personal Code (pacifist)\line Static: Dodge 16, Block 12, Parry 12, Soak 12(13)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Pulp Stock Characters\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Cultist\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i We're not worthy.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Potency: **, Scale: 0D\line Might: 2D, Agility: 2D, Wit: 2D+1, Charm: 1D+2\line Skills: Brawling 3D, Stealth 3D, Magic 3D\line Gear: Hooded robe, knife.\line Static: Dodge 6, Block 9, Parry 6, Soak 6\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Dame in Distress\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Anything goes}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Potency: **, Scale: 0D\line Might: 1D+2, Agility: 2D, Wit: 2D+1, Charm: 3D\line Skills: Brawling 2D+2, Dodge 4D, Seduce 5D\line Gear: Compact mirror, hair pin, lip stick.\line Static: Dodge 12, Block 8, Parry 5, Soak 5\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Elder God\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Klatu Barada Nikto.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Potency: *******, Scale: +12D\line Might: 5D, Agility: 3D+2, Wit: 10D, Charm: 10D\line Skills: Magic 17D\line Spells: All.\line Perks: Maddening Visage (any character that sees the Elder God must make a Heroic Charm roll or gain Crazy complication). Cosmic Appetite (It will eat D6 characters before returning to its home dimension). Dimensional Shift (can return to its home dimension at will). Sorcerer.\line Complication: Must be summoned.\line Static: Dodge 11, Block 15, Soak 15\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Mad Scientist\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i 1.21 jigawatts should do the it!}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Potency: **, Scale: 0D\line Might: 2D, Agility: 2D, Wit: 4D, Charm: 2D\line Skills: Dodge 4D, Repair 6D, Science 7D\line Complication: Crazy.\line Static: Dodge 12, Block 6, Parry 6, Soak 6\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Scaly Kin\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Survivors out of time.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Potency: ***, Scale: 0D\line Might: 2D+1, Agility: 2D+2, Wit: 2D, Charm: 3D\line Skills: Dodge 3D+2, Pole Arm 3D+1, Stealth: 4D\line Perk: ESP\line Static: Dodge 11, Block 7, Parry 10, Soak 7\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Fantasy Stock Characters\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Barbarian\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Savage from the north hills.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Potency: **, Scale: 0D\line Might: 3D+2, Agility: 2D+1, Wit: 1D+2, Charm: 2D+1\line Skills: Brawling 4D+2, Dodge 4D+1, Sword 5D+2, Track 3D+2\line Gear: Leather armor (+2), two-handed sword.\line Static: Dodge 13, Block 14, Parry 17, Soak 11(13)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Dwarf Warrior\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Clansman of the Great Hall.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Potency: ***\line Might: 4D, Agility: 2D, Wit: 2D, Charm: 2D\line Skills: Axe 5D, Brawling 5D, Dodge 3D\line Perks: Dwarf\line Gear: Axe, chain mail (+6).\line Static: Dodge 9, Block 15, Parry 15, Soak 8(14)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Elf Bowman\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Guardian of the forest.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Potency: ***, Scale: 0D\line Might: 2D, Agility: 4D, Wit: 2D, Charm: 2D\line Skills: Bow 5D, Dodge 5D, Sword 3D\line Perks: Elf\line Gear: Bow & arrows, leather armor (+2), sword.\line Static: Dodge 15, Block 6, Parry 9, Soak 6(8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Guard\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Guard, gladiator, or soldier.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Potency: **, Scale: 0D\line Might: 3D, Agility: 2D, Wit: 2D, Charm: 2D\line Skills: Brawling 4D, Dodge 3D, Sword or Mace 4D\line Gear: Leather armor (+2), sword or mace.\line Static: Dodge 9, Block 12, Parry 12, Soak 9(11)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Knight\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i For King and country!}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Potency: ***, Scale: 0D\line Might: 3D+1, Agility: 2D+2, Wit: 2D, Charm: 2D\line Skills: Dodge 3D+2, Sword 4D+2, Riding 3D\line Gear: Horse, plate mail (+9), shield (+4), sword.\line Static: Dodge 11, Block 10, Parry 14, Soak 10(23)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Priest\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Righteous defender.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Potency: ***, Scale: 0D\line Might: 2D+1, Agility: 2D, Wit: 2D+2, Charm: 3D\line Skills: Dodge 3D, Magic 4D+2.\line Perks: Sorcerer.\line Spells: Heal, Bless, +2 more\line Gear: Chain mail (+3), staff.\line Static: Dodge 9, Block 7, Parry 7, Soak 7(13)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Pirate\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Yoho!}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Potency: ***, Scale: 0D\line Might: 2D, Agility: 4D, Wit: 2D, Charm: 2D\line Skills: Brawling 3D, Dodge 5D, Navigation 3D, Sailing 5D, Sword 4D\line Gear: Compass or spy glass, sword.\line Static: Dodge 15, Block 9, Parry 12, Soak 6\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Thief\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i What's yours is mine.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Potency: **, Scale: 0D\line Might: 2D, Agility: 3D+1, Wit: 2D, Charm: 2D+2\line Skills: Pick Locks 3D, Pickpocket 4D, Stealth 5D\line Gear: Leather armor (+2), lock picks, knife.\line Static: Dodge 9, Block 12, Parry 12, Soak 9(11)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Wizard\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Sorcerer or necromancer.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Potency: ****, Scale: 0D\line Might: 1D+2, Agility: 2D+1, Wit: 4D, Charm: 2D\line Perks: Sorcerer.\line Skills: Dodge 3D+1, Magic 6D\line Gear: Knife\line Spells: ESP, Lightning Bolt, Paralysis, +3 more\line Static: Dodge 10, Block 4, Parry 4, Soak 5\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Fantasy Bestiary\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Centaur\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Can you ride me? I say nay.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Potency: **, Scale: 0D\line Might: 4D, Agility: 2D+1, Wit: 1D+2, Charm: 2D\line Skills: Bow 4D+1, Dodge 3D+1, Stamina 5D\line Gear: Bow & arrows.\line Static: Dodge 10, Block 12, Parry 12, Soak 12\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Devil (Minor)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i I'm the best there's ever been.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Potency: ****, Scale: 0D\line Might: 3D, Agility: 2D+2, Wit: 3D+1, Charm: 5D\line Skills: Brawling 5D, Dodge 4D+2, Persuasion 7D, Seduce 6D\line Perks: Regeneration, Speaks All Languages.\line Static: Dodge 14, Block 15, Soak 9\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Dragon\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Master of all he surveys.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Potency: *****, Scale: +4D\line Might: 4D, Agility: 2D, Wit: 4D, Charm: 3D\line Skills: Brawling 5D, Breath Attack 5D\line Attacks: Bite (character scale, 8D damage) or Bite (dragon scale, 4D damage) Tail Bash (character scale, 4D damage), Breath Fire (3D damage, range 60 ft)\line Perks: Scales (+3 armor), Fly 90 ft/round\line Static: Dodge 6, Block 15, Soak 12(15)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Elemental (Fire)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Body of living flame.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Potency: ***, Scale: 0D\line Might: 4D+1, Agility: 4D+2, Wit: 1D, Charm: 1D\line Skills: Brawling 5D+1, Dodge 5D+2\line Perks: Ignite by Touch, Targets hit by brawling attack must make a Moderate Might check or catch fire (4D damage/round until extinguished).\line Comp: Weakness to Water (1D damage/gallon).\line Static: Dodge 17, Block 16, Soak 13\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Fairie\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Third star to the right\u8230 ?}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Potency: *, Scale: 0D\line Might: 1D, Agility: 4D+1, Wit: 2D, Charm: 2D+2\line Skills: Athletics 3D, Dodge 6D+1, Magic 4D\line Perks: Sorcerer, Fly 60 ft/round\line Spells: Charm, Illusions, Light, Slumber\line Static: Dodge 19, Block 3, Soak 3\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Gargoyle\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Stone guardian.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Potency: ***, Scale: 0D\line Might: 2D, Agility: 2D+2, Wit: 1D, Charm: 1D\line Skills: Brawling 4D+1, Dodge 4D, Search 3D+2, Stamina 4D, Stealth 4D+1\line Perk: Fly 60 ft/round, Armor Skin (+9)\line Static: Dodge 12, Block 13, Soak 6(15)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Ghost\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Doomed spirit.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Potency: ****, Scale: 0D\line Might: 0D, Agility: 4D, Wit: 3D+2, Charm: 3D+1\line Skills: Brawling 4D+2, Dodge 5D, Stealth 6D\line Perks: Insubstantial (can only be harmed by magic or enchanted weapons; uses Wit in place of Might to resist and deal damage); Mournful Wail (any who hear the wail must make a Moderate Courage check or flee).\line Static: Dodge 15, Block 14, Soak 11\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Giant\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Grind your bones to paste.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Potency: *****, Scale: +4D\line Might: 5D, Agility: 2D, Wit: 2D, Charm: 3D\line Skills: Brawling 7D, Mace 7D, Throwing 4D\line Gear: Mace (tree trunk). Boulders: 3D damage, range 20/40/60\line Static: Dodge 6, Block 21, Parry 21, Soak 15\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Goblin\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Vermin from below.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Potency: **, Scale: 0D\line Might: 1D+1, Agility: 2D+1, Wit: 1D+1, Charm: 1D\line Skills: Bow 3D, Dodge 3D+1, Stealth 2D+2\line Gear: Bow & arrows, knife, shield (+4)\line Static: Dodge 10, Block 4, Parry 4, Soak 4(8)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Golem\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Automatons of destruction.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Potency: ****, Scale: +2D\line Might: 4D+1, Agility: 2D, Wit: 1D, Charm: 1D\line Skills: Brawling 6D+1, Dodge 4D, Lift 6D+1\line Perks: Armor Skin (+3)\line Static: Dodge 12, Block 19, Soak 13(16)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Gorgon\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i With baited breath.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Potency: ***, Scale: 0D\line Might: 5D+1, Agility: 1D+2, Wit: 0D, Charm: 1D\line Skills: Brawling 6D+2, Breath Attack 3D+2\line Perks: Armor Skin (+5), Petrifying Breath (60 ft range, any creature caught in its breath must make a Moderate Stamina check or be paralyzed for 1d6 rounds).\line Static: Dodge 5, Block 20, Soak 16(21)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Griffon\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Hunters of the sky.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Potency: ***, Scale: 0D\line Might: 3D+2, Agility: 3D+1, Wit: 1D, Charm: 1D\line Skills: Brawling 5D, Dodge 5D+1, Stamina 6D\line Perks: Fly (60 ft/round), Talons (+1D damage)\line Static: Dodge 16, Block 15, Soak 11\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Harpy\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i She's a maneater.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Potency: ***, Scale: 0D\line Might: 2D+2, Agility: 3D+1, Wit: 2D, Charm: 1D\line Skills: Brawling 4D+2, Dodge 5D, Stealth 5D\line Perk: Fly (60 ft/round), Talons (+1D damage)\line Static: Dodge 15, Block 14, Soak 8\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Hell Hound\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i The devil's lapdog.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Potency: ***, Scale: 0D\line Might: 3D+2, Agility: 2D+1, Wit: 1D, Charm: 1D\line Skills: Breath Attack 4D+1, Brawling 4D+2, Dodge 3D+1, Tracking 5D\line Perks: Fire Breathing (20 ft range, 3D damage)\line Static: Dodge 10, Block 14, Soak 11\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Hydra\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Many-headed terror.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Potency: *****, Scale: +4D\line Might: 3D, Agility: 2D, Wit: 1D, Charm: 1D\line Skills: Brawling 5D, Search 4D\line Perks: Hydra Heads (A Hydra starts with three heads and has one Wounded level for each head but has no Severely Wounded level. A head is destroyed if it takes a Wounded damage level. Three rounds after a head is destroyed two new ones take its place. These heads provide extra Wounded levels.) Extra Attacks (make one unpenalized attack for each head.)\line Static: Dodge 6, Block 15, Soak 9\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Medusa\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Stone cold killer.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Potency: *****, Scale: 0D\line Might: 2D+2, Agility: 2D+2, Wit: 2D+2, Charm: 1D\line Skills: Bow 4D+2, Dodge 4D+2, Stealth 4D\line Gear: Bow & arrows.\line Perks: Petrifying Visage (setting eyes upon a medusa will turn a character to stone if they fail a Difficult Stamina check. To avoid looking at her while targeting her requires a Moderate Wit check or closing one's eyes. Closed eyes incur a \u8722 ?20 penalty to the attack.)\line Static: Dodge 14, Block 8, Soak 10\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Minotaur\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Master of the maze.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Potency: ***, Scale 0D\line Might: 5D+2, Agility: 2D+1, Wit: 1D+2, Charm: 1D+1\line Skills: Pole Arm 6D+2, Dodge 3D+1, Tracking 5D+2\line Gear: Spear.\line Static: Dodge 10, Block 17, Parry 20, Soak 17\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Ogre\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Mercenaries and brigands.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Potency: ****, Scale: +2D\line Might: 4D, Agility: 1D+1, Wit: 1D+1, Charm: 1D+1\line Skills: Axe 6D, Brawling 5D+2, Dodge 3D+1\line Gear: Axe, leather armor (+2).\line Static: Dodge 10, Block 17, Parry 18, Soak 12(14)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Orc\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Scourge of civilization.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Potency: ***, Scale: 0D\line Might: 3D+1, Agility: 2D, Wit: 1D+2, Charm: 1D\line Skills: Dodge 3D, Stealth 3D, Sword 4D+1\line Gear: Sword, shield (+4).\line Static: Dodge 9, Block 10, Parry 13, Soak 10(14)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Pegasus\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Sky mount of the elves.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Potency: ***, Scale: 0D\line Might: 4D+1, Agility: 2D+2, Wit: 1D, Charm: 2D\line Skills: Athletics 3D, Dodge 4D+2\line Perks: Fly (60 ft/round).\line Static: Dodge 14, Block 13, Soak 13\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Phoenix\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i The eternal bird.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Potency: ****, Scale: +2D\line Might: 2D+1, Agility: 3D+2, Wit: 2D, Charm: 2D\line Skills: Brawling 6D, Dodge 6D+2\line Perks: Fly (60 ft/round)\line Explosive Death (when killed a 20 ft radius 5D fireball erupts from its body). Resurrection (at the next sunrise a new phoenix rises from the ashes.)\line Static: Dodge 20, Block 18, Soak 7\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Rat of Unusual Size\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Most dispute they exists.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Potency: **, Scale: 0D\line Might: 3D, Agility: 2D, Wit: 0D, Charm: 1D\line Skills: Athletics 4D, Brawling 4D, Dodge 3D\line Static: Dodge 9, Block 12, Soak 9\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Skeleton\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Fleshless undead.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Potency: **, Scale: 0D\line Might: 2D, Agility: 3D, Wit: 0D, Charm: 0D\line Static: Dodge 9, Block 6, Parry 6, Soak 6\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Troll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Nearly mindless killers.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Potency: ****, Scale: 0D\line Might: 6D, Agility: 2D, Wit: 1D, Charm: 1D\line Perks: Regeneration\line Comp: Weakness to fire (+2D damage)\line Gear: Club.\line Static: Dodge 6, Block 18, Parry 18, Soak 18\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Vampire\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Cursed to feed on the living.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Potency: *****, Scale: 0D\line Might: 3D+1, Agility: 4D+1, Wit: 3D+1, Charm: 4D\line Skills: Athletics 5D, Brawling 5D, Dodge 6D+1, History 5D, Seduce 6D, Stealth 5D\line Perks: ESP, Bite (the vampire heals a wound level when inflicting at least a serious wound by brawling. Anyone killed this way rises as a vampire the next night.)\line Comp: Weakness to Sunlight (the vampire suffers a \u8722 ?2D to all rolls and \u8722 ?6 to all Static combat scores while in direct sunlight.) Stake through the heart (targeting a vampire's heart with a wooden stake adds 25 to the TN to hit but kills it instantly.)\line Static: Dodge 19, Block 15, Parry 10, Soak 10\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Werewolf\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i He's the hairy hairy gent.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Potency: ***, Scale: 0D\line Might: 4D, Agility: 3D+2, Wit: 1D+2, Charm: 2D\line Skills: Brawling 5D, Dodge 5D+2, Stealth 5D\line Perks: Regeneration, Damage Immunity (can only be harmed by silver, magic, and enchanted weapons.) Infectious Attack (anyone who is Severely Wounded or worse by a werewolf must make a Moderate Charm roll or transforms into a werewolf during the full moon).\line Static: Dodge 17, Block 15, Soak 12\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Zombie\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Freshly risen undead.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Potency: **, Scale: 0D\line Might: 3D, Agility: 2D, Wit: 0D, Charm: 0D\line Static: Dodge 6, Block 9, Parry 9, Soak 9\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel0 \b \fs36 Optional Rules\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 By its nature Minimal OpenD6 is highly customizable. With just a few choices you can change it from a light hearted game of keystone cops to gritty survival horror. While it is always good to remember that all rules are optional when preparing for the game the following ideas are meant to help give you further inspiration in adjusting the game to best fit your needs. In the end the only hard and fast rule is to play the game the way your group enjoys.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Renaming Attributes\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 By changing attribute names GMs can influence how a game feels. For Swashbuckling games the four attributes could be called Power, Grace, Reason, and Poise. If set in 70's Grindhouse they could transform into Muscles, Moves, Brains, and Cool.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Varying the Number of Attribute Dice\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Default starting player characters have 12 dice to spend on attributes. This makes them heroic in nature and generally competent in everything. By changing the number of attribute dice the feel of play is altered. The following chart provides guidelines for total attribute dice to use based on the power scale of the game:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 8 dice = The common man.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 9 dice = Experienced. Well trained in their specialty.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 10 dice = Competent. A cut above John Q Public.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 11 dice = Veteran. Easily stands out from the rest.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 12 dice = Heroic. The default level of play.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 13 dice = World Class. Has an edge in most everything.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 14+ dice = Legendary characters. Herculean in nature.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Expanded Number of Attributes\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The default four attributes cover most situations a character might come across. This also makes them fairly broad. If a greater division is desired extra attributes can be added. Examples include Perception (separated from Wit), Mechanical (from Agility and Wit), Courage (from Charm) and Toughness (from Might).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Beginning Attribute Dice:} When adding extra attributes each player receives three additional dice per attribute added for heroic level games. If 6 attributes are used in place of 4, players would divide 18D among them.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Effects on Skills:} If your GM has increased the number of attributes he will provide you with a breakdown of where each skill now defaults.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Increasing the Attribute Range\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Characters are normally limited to 4D in an attribute unless a perk modifies this. Some GMs may wish to offer an upper maximum of 5D, 6D, or higher. When using this option the dice are spent as normal. Other GMs may not be so comfortable with such casually powerful characters. They may choose a more costly option instead.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Higher Attributes at a Price\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Under this rule characters can select attributes above 4D or whatever limits the GM sets, but they cost twice as much as normal beyond that limit. For example, a GM declares attributes are purchased as normal up to 4D but he allows higher attributes at a price up to 5D. A character who spends 6D in Might would record 5D as their Might attribute. Another character wants an Agility of 4D+2. This would cost him 5D+1 attribute dice.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 No Attributes\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 All skills default to a base 2D and at character creation players receive 16D to spend on skills. Up to 4D can be spent in any one skill. For example, if playing a Gunslinger, the player may spend 4D in {\i Pistol}, 1D in {\i Rifle}, 3D in {\i Toughness} (to resist damage) 4D in {\i Dodge}, 3D in {\i Brawling}, and 1D in {\i Gamble}; recording it like this:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Gunslinger:} 5D Brawl, 6D Dodge, 3D Gamble, 6D Pistol, 3D Rifle, 5D Toughness.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Adding Paranormal Abilities\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Paranormal Abilities are special for two reasons; first it is possible to have 0D in them, representing mundane characters. The second is that those who do have them gain access to restricted powers. For example in a vampire game characters might use Blood Potency, Dominate, Foretelling, Spirit, and Transformation; during character creation the player could spend attribute dice to gain some access to one or more them.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 No extra attribute dice are given for Paranormal Abilities at character creation. This reduces a character's mundane attributes but the powers granted by their paranormal gifts make up for it. GMs will define which, if any, are used in their games and how they work in the setting.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Characters who begin with 0D in a Paranormal Ability may be allowed to purchase it later with GM permission. We suggest the first die cost 10 or 20 CP.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Quasi Skills\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 These are purchased as attributes at character creation but afterwards are raised with CP like skills and don't have any skills under them. GMs might increase the cost to raise these skills based on a character's access to teachers or suitable training material. For example, a game focused on Angels might include the quasi skills of {\i Spiritual}, {\i Etheric}, and {\i Corporeal}. A starting character may have {\i Spiritual} 2D {\i Etheric} 1D, and {\i Corporeal} 0D. Later, studying under one of his elder's the angel would spend 2 CP to improve Spiritual to 2D+1.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Paranormal Attributes with Skills\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 These are the same as any other attributes except that characters can have 0D in the attribute and no access to their related skills. In a game focused on werewolf naturists the GM might create the attributes Elemental and Spiritual. Under the Elemental attribute the skills may be {\i Air}, {\i Earth}, {\i Fire}, and {\i Water}; while Spiritual includes {\i Communing}, {\i Summoning}, and {\i Channeling}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Varying Starting Skill Dice\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Default starting player characters receive 7 dice to spend on skills and perks and can't spend more than 2D on any one skill. This represents fledgling heroic level characters. The GM might grant them additional dice for a more difficult campaign. He may also allow them to spend more than 2D in any single skill. The number of dice and maximum allocations should be weighed carefully to fit the desires of the campaign.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 High Skills Rolls Increasing Damage\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 When using this rule damage is boosted by 1 point for every 5 points you exceeded the target number to hit. If a warrior needed to beat a Parry of 14 and rolled a 26 on his attack, this would increase the damage by +2 since the target was beaten by 12.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 For increased deadliness, simply reduce the number needed to exceed the roll by to increase damage. If every 3 points of success translates to 1 point of damage skilled characters are deadly.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Independent Skills\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Skills normally always default to one particular attribute, for example {\i Sword} always defaults to Might. In a more freewheeling campaign skills may be detached from attributes allowing more fluid definition of how their used. When skills are purchased they don't get the benefit of any default attribute. If using a broad skill list then the typical 7D may be used. If opting for many more narrowly focused skills then 12D to 18D may be appropriate.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 It is suggested that raising skills with CP should cost double the normal price for skill advancement. This sounds more costly but isn't because the skills start so much lower.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A sample knight might look like this:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Knight:} Might 4D, Agility 3D, Wit 2D, Charm 3D\line \u160 ?\u160 ?\u160 ?\u160 ?\u160 ?\u160 ?\u160 ?\u160 ?Dodge 1D, History 1D, Ride 2D, Seduce 1D, Sword 2D\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 When attacking an enemy our knight will typically roll Might + {\i Sword} for a total of 6D. Later when attempting to purchase a quality sword in the market the knight would roll his Wit + {\i Sword} for a total of 4D. That evening while practicing his swordsmanship a group of ladies watches from afar. To impress them he rolls his Charm + {\i Sword} for a total of 5D.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Rolling Limit\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Some dislike rolling large numbers of dice, feeling the math slows down the game. GMs may impose a limit on the number of dice rolled at any time. We suggest the cut-off be 5 dice. If a character has more than 5D on a roll, each die beyond the rolling limit is converted to a +3 bonus. For example a GM has imposed a 5D rolling limit at his table. A character with 7D+1 in {\i Rifle} shoots at bad guy. He rolls 5 dice and adds 7 to the result.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Halfway There\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 To help speed up the game, if the number of skill dice in any skill is equal to half the Target Number, the GM may consider it an automatic success.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Traditional OpenD6 Hero Points\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 In traditional OpenD6, Hero Points work differently. Instead of giving a static +6 to a roll and allowing for other options such as Flesh Wounds, etc. they double the number of dice on any single roll. For example a spy has 4D+1 in {\i Security} and must disable a bomb. To help ensure success the player spends 1 HP doubling his roll to 8D+2.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Traditional OpenD6 Character Points\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 In traditional OpenD6 Character Points may be spent to improve individual rolls during play. These points can be spent after the character has rolled but only before the GM has let the player know if the roll was successful. Each CP spent grants additional Wild Die to the roll. The GM may impose a limit on how many CP may be used on a single roll in his game. Players cannot spend character points to improve a roll that they also spent a Hero Point on.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Traditional OpenD6 Might Damage\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 In traditional OpenD6 the base amount of damage dealt in unarmed and melee combat is calculated differently. Characters use half their dice in their {\i Lift} skill ignoring pips and rounding down the result. For example, a character with a {\i Lift} skill of 3D+2 would deal 1D damage in unarmed combat or 1D+weapon damage when using a melee weapon.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Buying New Perks\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If you have a good reason and the GM agrees you may buy a perk after play has begun for 10 CP times the standard cost. Some perks make no sense; you don't wake up an elf.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Buying Off Complications\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 To get rid of a complication the GM will impose a price of at least 20 CP if he allows it at all and you need a really good story, possibly even a quest or adventure to justify it. Alternatively, as the story progresses player and GM might agree to exchange old complications for new one.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Body Points (alternative to Wound Levels)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 In place of using Wound Levels GMs may elect to use Body Points (BP). Under this variant, players roll their character's Might and add this to 20. This is the amount of damage they can take before death. If less variability is desired the GM may give 4 BP per die in Might instead.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Damage Resistance Under Fast Static Combat:} Under this combat system, the Static Soak is replaced with Static Damage Resistance (DR). Static Damage Resistance is equal to the Armor Value of the target. As a rule of thumb any creature or stock character with no number in parenthesis next to their Soak has a Damage Resistance of 0; those that do subtract their Soak from the number in parenthesis and use the difference. The GM might define special abilities that also grant a bonus to this total. Hero points can be spent to gain a +6 bonus to DR.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Damage Resistance Traditional OpenD6 Combat:} The damage resistance total equals a roll of the target character's die codes from armor or Special Abilities. Hero points can be spent to gain a +6 bonus to DR.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Taking Damage Under Both Systems:} When a character is hit they subtract their DR from the damage total. If the remaining total is one or more it is subtracted from the character's current BP total. If reduced to 0 or fewer BP, the character is dead.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Natural Healing\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 To heal, the character needs complete rest. After resting one full day a Might check is made and the level of success achieved determines how many BP are recovered. Healing: BP are recovered as follows:\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Healing Difficulty}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b BP Recovered}\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Very Easy\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Easy\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Moderate\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2D\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Difficult\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3D\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Very Difficult\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4D\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Heroic\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 5D\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Assisted Healing (Medicine)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Once per day a character can assist another by making a {\i Medicine} skill check. The number of BP healed is based on the level of success achieved and uses the same chart as the character's Might check.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Adjusting Deadliness\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 By increasing or decreasing the base number of BP the lethality of the game is changed. For extremely cinematic games the GM may allow players to double the Might total or roll twice and take the higher number.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel0 \b \fs36 Making the Game Your Own\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Its possible to sit down and play a game with Minimal OpenD6 on the fly using just what has been provided. However, the game is much more enjoyable when some advance thought is put into the world the characters will adventure in. For repeated campaign style play this is practically a requirement.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Developing Your Own Setting (or stealing from the Great Ones)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The first thing you need is an idea. If you don't already have one try asking your players what they want to do. Between talking with them and your own dreams one is likely to form. It might be based off a comic book, a show on TV, a recent hit movie, or any other source of mass media. Or it might be invented whole cloth from your imagination. Before we get all touchy feely and start sharing emotions let's crawl out of your head and get on to the next step.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Now that you have a golden gem of an idea, you need to write down a short description. Imagine that your audience has never heard of anything similar before while also limiting yourself to just a couple of paragraphs at most. Don't worry about being Shakespeare, just write down the way you would explain it to the players. Think of it as the movie trailer for your setting. If fail to hit the high points no one will be interested or possibly even understand it. At this point though, do not bog yourself down in detail.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Who are the Characters?\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Think about it your game from the players' perspective. What kind of characters do they often like to play and what kind of characters do you see them playing in your game? You will need to be able to explain to them what kind of characters they can make and how they fit into the world. This must be followed up by the very important question what do they do? What kind of adventures will they go on? How can their characters fit into the adventure easily without you having to invent the flimsiest of reasons to include them. The easier you make it on them at this point, the less work it is going to be on you to bring them in and keep them all together.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Some players get a sadistic joy out of playing against type. You might be casting a supers team made up of mutants that all work together and one person who declares himself to be the feral loner. These characters can complicate things quite a bit. We aren't saying not to allow them, although that is your call. You will need to speak with this player to make sure you are both on the same page. Maybe the crazy professor that pulled them together also gave them all radios to stay in constant communication. If all else fails gently remind them this is a group oriented game.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 What are the Rules?\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 We think we have a pretty good set here with Minimal OpenD6, but some might call us biased. You might be happy with the default rules, but maybe you want something a little different. Okay Mr. Picky, write down which optional rules you are going to use. Which combat system are you going to use? Hint, hint, we think Static is Faster, but maybe you're a traditionalist at heart. That's okay, we still love you. You might have your own ideas for another magic system if your game uses that or you decide to run with the Body Points system instead of Wound Levels.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The optional rules you can use though are not just limited to the choices we give in this rule book, it includes your own ideas and editions, those special flourishes that make the game your own. But whatever you do, be sure to write it down for consistency later and tell your players before they make characters. It is only the nice thing to do.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 What are the Skills?\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Start by writing down the attributes in separate columns. Then place the skills under them that you think will be useful in the game you plan to run. Some skills may be broader than others depending on how useful they are in your opinion. For example, in many games there is just a skill called {\i Science} which covers Biology, Chemistry, Math, and many more boring subjects except for Medicine. But, if you are playing a game where the characters are scientists exploring the galaxy through stargates, you might need several different, more specific, Science skills.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 New Perks or Complications?\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 This is your chance to help reinforce the game through new racial perks you make, codes of honor, etc. Players love new stuff. It also serves to further develop any archetypes you dreamed up.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 How are Money and Gear Handled?\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Most players are going to want to know how much stuff they can get their hands on. If your game is one where they count their dollars and spend specific amounts be sure to let them know and even prepare a price list and basic monetary notation. You might take a more laid back approach and say that a knight owns armor, a sword, and a horse; while his wizard companion has a pointed hat, musty books, and a stout walking stick. However you decide to do this, just try and be consistent and fair.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 What are You Going to do When You Run Out of Ideas?\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Well, you're having ideas right now, so start writing these adventures seeds and save them for a rainy day. Just a paragraph or two is all you need to do. It will help keep it in your mind and when you are too busy with life or suffering from writer's block these morsels will be sitting there on your plate. A handy formula is a basic scenario plus one complication. Now have at it!\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel0 \b \fs36 Campaigning the TV Way\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Think of the campaign as a television series. You can \u8220"cast\u8221" the characters and NPCs from celebrities instead of describing what your character looks like just name the actor that plays him. Keep in mind how dramatic and action oriented shows are structured. They have plot arcs that stretch many \u8220"episodes\u8221" and there is always a season finale. After the season is over take a break from that game and play something else. Even if everyone wants to dive back into it immediately take at least a short break. Run a game in a different setting, break out that $100 board game you bought, whatever. Think of this time off as a palette cleanser. And when the game is started again that's a new season and everyone will be looking forward to it.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 One of the fun things about this style of play is the ability to use cinematic techniques like a director does. If your players enjoy this style there are some tricks to further spice things up. Research is easy, plop down in front of your favorite show and start watching, making mental notes about the things you like. With practice you could run a game like a Tarantino flick.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Flash Forwards\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Write down a few vague lines of dialogue on index cards and number them. Then hand them out but don't let your players look at them until their number comes up. The player with card number one reads their line, then two responds by reading his, and so on. You don't want to give the plot away or make anything too specific; it is more to tease them. Keep in mind that at some point they should catch up to the flash forward and will hopefully cooperate with what has already been established. This might be in the same session, or several later depending on how you plan the campaign.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A second flash forward technique would start the adventure at some dramatic point between the middle and end of the episode. By describing what the characters are doing, how they look, and where they are, you can surprise them. Keep in mind though not to give too much away or nail down so many details they have no say in the path that brought them to this point. The characters should still have free will. For example, at the beginning of the session the GM narrates, \u8220"The three of you are standing before a pillar made of human skulls. Baelendor seems to have lost his lost his old armor; all the troupe's provisions are also missing. You are hot, tired, and bloody...\u8221" at some point one of the players will challenge how they got there. Then the GM says, \u8220"Two days previously...\u8221" and then start the adventure from the beginning. With luck they will eventually stand in that moment and the players will enjoy returning to that point in the story.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 When using flash forwards don't take away the players' free will. If they don't end up where the flash forward happened, that must have been some alternative future. If the players won't let go of their metagame knowledge of the flash forward don't use them again.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Flash Backs\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Another popular TV device is looking into the past. During the game it's possible to run an adventure from before the first episode. You will have to give some thought to how powerful the characters should be at that point in their development and it should tie to the current storyline. Some players may grumble that they earned skills they can't use because the character doesn't know them yet. Tell them to stop whining and remind them that they can still use the points they earned from the past they just played through on those skills they couldn't use. Of course if your players don't enjoy these occasional forays then don't use them. Because even if you enjoy them, you will not enjoy five people whining for three hours.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel0 \b \fs36 Converting Between Minimal OpenD6 & Traditional OpenD6\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Even though Minimal OpenD6 is part of the OpenD6 family, it has been tweaked in several ways. By making the following changes and applying the noted optional rules you can make Minimal OpenD6 resemble its more recognized parent.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Character Creation\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Player characters start with six attributes and distribute 18D among them. There are three common sets of attributes depending on the genre played. The following chart may help convert characters between the systems. Once dice have been distributed check your math. If you have more than 18D in traditional OpenD6, or 12D in Minimal OpenD6, adjust for balance using common sense. If you have too few dice spent, then spend the remaining dice as best fits the character concept.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2520\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6600\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8400
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Minimal OpenD6} {\b Equivalent}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b OpenD6} {\b Fantasy}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b OpenD6} {\b Adventure}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b OpenD6} {\b Sci-Fi}\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2520\cellx4320\cellx6600\cellx8400
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Might\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Physique\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Physique\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Strength\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2520\cellx4320\cellx6600\cellx8400
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Agility\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Agility\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Reflexes\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Dexterity\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2520\cellx4320\cellx6600\cellx8400
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Agility\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Coordination\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Coordination\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2520\cellx4320\cellx6600\cellx8400
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Wit\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Intellect\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Knowledge\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Knowledge\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2520\cellx4320\cellx6600\cellx8400
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Charm\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Charm\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Presence\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2520\cellx4320\cellx6600\cellx8400
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 (Wit+Charm)/2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Acumen\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Perception\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Perception\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2520\cellx4320\cellx6600\cellx8400
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 (Agility+Wit)/2\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
{\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Mechanical\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2520\cellx4320\cellx6600\cellx8400
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Wit\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
{\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Technical\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Skills may move to new attributes. Simply review the skill list provided by the GM and note accordingly.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Extranormal Skills\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 OpenD6 Fantasy has {\i Miracles} and {\i Magic}. OpenD6 Adventure has {\i Magic} and {\i Psionics}. OpenD6 Science Fiction has {\i Channel}, {\i Sense}, and {\i Transform}. All of these are considered Paranormal Abilities that use the Quasi Skills optional rule.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 The Wild Die\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 When a 1 is rolled on the Wild Die in traditional OpenD6 it can have three possible effects based on GM fiat:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab It can be treated normally and added to the roll.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 2.\tx360\tab It is ignored along with the highest normal die rolled.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 3.\tx360\tab It causes a complication to the action taken.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Options Used by Traditional OpenD6\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Traditional OpenD6 Combat\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Traditional OpenD6 Hero Points\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Traditional OpenD6 Character Points\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Traditional OpenD6 Might Damage\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Perks are called Advantages\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Complications are called Disadvantages\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel0 \b \fs36 Sample Settings\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Perdition: Tales of Damned Fool Heroes\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \u8220"Your great-grandpa's great-grandpa came here in a big ship. It was so big that whole cities of people were inside. Here was so far away from Earth that everyone slept the whole way. They turned the ships into factories on the nicest worlds, and but nobody else ever came from Earth. Maybe they went to another system. Strange that we never heard anything. The first worlds filled up and they changed the ones that weren't so nice, the frontier worlds like ours, into better ones so that we could live here too. Folk being as they are, they fell to squabblin' soon enough. The First Worlds have it easy compared to us frontiersmen, but we've got something they'll never understand. You can't put it in a box, or put it in a book, or put a price on it even if they did win the war. It's still ours.\u8221" \u8211- Old man to his grandson\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Humanity came to Vega because of war, pollution, limited resources, and overpopulation. The pioneers travelled the 25 light years in cryonic sleep on a voyage that took over 300 years. When they arrived they founded a new civilization, called the League, which is parliamentary in nature. As more worlds are colonized, the power of the League grew, but rifts began to develop between the older heavily industrialized worlds and the younger thinly populated frontier worlds of Lantos and Leton.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The war lasted for six years, and hundreds of thousands died in battles both on the ground and in space. The frontier rebels were eventually defeated and Lantos and Leton rejoined the League, although their voices are weak in parliament.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The player characters of Perdition take the roles of scavengers, honorable scoundrels, and thieves with conscience. They share a dislike, possibly even a hatred for the League, but they're not part of a rebel military. Those days are gone forever. They're not terrorists or single-minded lunatics bent on revenge. They operate outside of League law, but they're not sociopaths. They will defend themselves, their friends, and their families, but they aren't murderers or pirates. They're people out on the edge of a frontier. They rob banks, they steal stuff, they swindle League stooges, they smuggle contraband, they raid League outposts, and above all else, they get paid.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 But they don't steal from the poor. They don't extort the virtuous. They always keep their word. They don't kill the innocent or leave them to die, 'cause deep down they're damned fool heroes.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Character Creation Guidelines\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Higher Attributes at a Price, up to 5D (See {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "#higher-attributes-at-a-price"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Higher Attributes at a Price
}}}
).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 Skill List\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Might:} Brawling, Melee Weapons, Lift, Stamina\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Agility:} Athletics, BFG, Bow, Dodge, Drive, Pickpocket, Pilot, Pistol, Rifle, Stealth, Throwing\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wit:} Computer, History, Language, Medicine, Navigation, Repair, Science, Security, Tracking\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Charm:} Command, Diplomacy, Persuasion, Riding, Seduce, Streetwise\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 New Complications\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Bull in a China Shop:} The character is a klutz. Choose one Agility skill that the character can use without penalty. Increase the difficulty of all other Agility rolls by +5. {\i Dodge} skill isn't penalized. Earn one bonus CP each session.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Damned Fool Hero:} The character follows the code of Robin Hood as described previously. (Except for the giving to the needy part. A Hero's got to eat.) This is really just a Personal Code, so earn one CP whenever acting like a Damned Fool Hero complicates your life. (It's suggested that most of the player characters in the game have this complication, if not all.)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Not Pretty Cunning:} The character is uncouth and or unattractive. Choose one Charm skill that the character can use without penalty. Increase the difficulty of all other Charm skill rolls by +5. Earn one bonus CP each session.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b No Book Learning:} The character didn't benefit from a League education. Choose one Wit skill that the character can use without penalty. Increase the difficulty of all other Wit skill rolls by +5. Earn one bonus CP each session.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Weak:} The character is less powerful than his build would imply. Choose one Might skill that the character can use without penalty. Increase the difficulty of all other Might skill rolls by +5. Resisting damage and healing checks aren't penalized. Earn one bonus CP each session.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Advice for the GM\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Perdition is a space-western. There are no ray guns, no aliens, no faster-than-light travel, and no artificial intelligences. The miracle technologies available are limited to spaceships, artificial gravity inside spaceships, terraforming, and cryonic sleep \u8211- but the latter has few applications in the Worlds of Vega nowadays.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The industrialized worlds are little different from modern day Earth aside from these miracle techs. The League is strong there, but there are good folk on every world.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The frontier worlds are rougher and more homespun. People have had to be self sufficient to survive and there's little to no infrastructure in most places. That means that horses are often more reliable than cars and trucks. (You can grow and feed horses locally, but you have to import complex machines and fuel.) Justice tends to be more about the spirit of the law than the letter, but most folks can only expect whatever justice they create.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 The Paranormal\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Psychics are rare, and most educated people don't believe they exist. For every real psychic, there are a hundred charlatans conning people out of their money. No other special abilities are known to exist aside from ESP.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 Adventure Seeds\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b The Eosian Job:} Another gang wants to team up to rob the Safety Society Bank on Eos, which handles the payroll for nearby Fort Temperance. The leader of the gang suspects that one of his crew is a traitor after finding a League transmitting device, and wants the heroes to figure out who it is.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Strange Bedfellows:} The town of Baggs on Silenus asks for help against a cult who follow a supposed psychic. The leader of the gang is also wanted by the League for her crimes. The problem is that she's the eighteen year old daughter of a League minister.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 The Worlds of the Vega System\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 There are eleven true planets and another 78 moons in the Vega system. Of those, one planet is inhabited and three additional planets host a total of 37 moons that have been terraformed to human tolerance.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Vega is a blue star, much larger and hotter than Earth's sun. It has four small, rocky inner planets, and seven outer gas giants. Inside the orbit of the innermost three planets (Pallas, Perses, and Asteria) is the Typhon Asteroid Belt, which is usually just called the Belt by veteran spacers. Mining outfits large and small work the rocks for silver, gold, and other precious ores.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Standard Travel Times\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2520\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5040\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx7800
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b From}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b To}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Time}\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2520\cellx5040\cellx7800
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Nomos\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Belt\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6 + 1 Days\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2520\cellx5040\cellx7800
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Nomos or Belt\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Ophion Worlds\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 Week + 1D6 Days\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2520\cellx5040\cellx7800
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Nomos or Belt\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Lelantosian Worlds\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 Weeks + 1D6 Days\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2520\cellx5040\cellx7800
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Nomos or Belt\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Leton Worlds\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3 Weeks + 1D6 Days\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2520\cellx5040\cellx7800
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Ophion Worlds\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Ophion Worlds\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6 Weeks\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2520\cellx5040\cellx7800
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Ophion Worlds\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Lelantosian Worlds\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 Week + 2D6 Days\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2520\cellx5040\cellx7800
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Ophion Worlds\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Leton Worlds\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2 Weeks + 2D6 Days\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2520\cellx5040\cellx7800
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Lelantosian Worlds\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Lelantosian Worlds\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6 Days\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2520\cellx5040\cellx7800
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Lelantosian Worlds\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Leton Worlds\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1 Week + 3D6 Days\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2520\cellx5040\cellx7800
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Leton Worlds\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Leton Worlds\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1D6 Days\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 Navigation Bonus\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A pilot or another crewman can try to speed up the journey by making a special check. Roll the character's {\i Navigation} skill plus the Move of the vessel. Compare the result to the following:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 10 or less: 200% Standard Time\line 11\u8211-20: Standard Time\line 21\u8211-40: 90% of Standard Time\line 41+: 75% of Standard Time\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 A Mechanic's Work is Never Done\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Someone must spend time keeping every ship running. For small ships (scale +6D or less), a mechanic must make a repair roll with a TN equal to the 1\u8260 ?2 the trip's standard travel time (in days) + 10. This check is made at the midway point of the voyage. If he fails the check, roll on the vehicle damage chart to see what's broke.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Scarab Class Transport\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Cost:} $$$$\line {\b Scale:} +6D\line {\b Skill:} Pilot\line {\b Body:} 3D+1\line {\b MNV:} 2D\line {\b Move:} 3D\line {\b Crew:} 2\line {\b Psg:} 12\line {\b Weapons:} None\line {\b Cargo:} 2 Shuttles + 100 Tons\line {\b Shuttle:} $$$, Scale +4D, Skill: Pilot, MNV: 1D, Body: 2D+2, Move: 2D, Crew 1, Psg: 6, Cargo: 2 Tons\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The Scarab is an older generation of ship but well loved for its reliability and ruggedness. Its hold is adaptable to suit many types of cargo or can be converted for additional passenger berths.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Character Templates\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 Space Cowboy\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i I might be aiming to raise a ruckus.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Might: 3D} \u8212- Brawling 4D\line {\b Agility: 3D+1} \u8212- Dodge 5D+1, Pistol 5D+1\line {\b Wit: 2D+1}\line {\b Charm: 3D+1} \u8212- Bluff 4D+1, Command 4D+1\line {\b Static:} Dodge 16, Block 12, Parry 9, Soak 9\line {\b Perks & Comps:} None\line {\b Gear:} Pistol\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 First Mate\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Captain your plan is, well, not good.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Might: 3D} \u8212- Brawling 4D\line {\b Agility: 3D} \u8212- Dodge 5D, Rifle 5D\line {\b Wit: 3D+1}\line {\b Charm: 2D+2} \u8212- Streetwise 4D+2\line {\b Static:} Dodge 15, Block 12, Parry 9, Soak 9\line {\b Perks & Comps:} None\line {\b Gear:} Shotgun\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 City Slicker Doc\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Could you be any cruder? I doubt it.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Might: 2D}\line {\b Agility: 3D} \u8212- Dodge 4D, Stealth 4D\line {\b Wit: 4D} \u8212- Computer 5D, Medicine 6D, Science 5D\line {\b Charm: 4D} \u8212- Diplomacy 4D\line {\b Static:} Dodge 12, Block 6, Parry 6, Soak 6\line {\b Perks & Comps:} None\line {\b Gear:} Medical Bag, Pocket Computer\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 Pilot\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Watch how I soar!}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Might: 2D+1}\line {\b Agility: 3D+2} \u8212- Dodge 5D+1, Pilot 5D+2\line {\b Wit: 3D+1} \u8212- Computer 4D, Navigation 5D+1, Repair 4D+1\line {\b Charm: 2D+2} \u8212- Diplomacy 4D\line {\b Static:} Dodge 16, Block 7, Parry 7, Soak 7\line {\b Perks & Comps:} None\line {\b Gear:} Light Pistol\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 Mechanic\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i What did you call our ship?!}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Might: 2D+1}\line {\b Agility: 3D+2} \u8212- Dodge 5D+1, Pilot 5D+2\line {\b Wit: 3D+1} \u8212- Computer 4D, Navigation 5D+1, Repair 4D+1\line {\b Charm: 2D+2} \u8212- Diplomacy 4D\line {\b Static:} Dodge 16, Block 7, Parry 7, Soak 7\line {\b Perks & Comps:} None\line {\b Gear:} Light Pistol\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 Brute\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i I get 10% AND my own bunk?!}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Might: 5D} \u8212- Brawling 5D+1\line {\b Agility: 2D+2} \u8212- BFG 4D+2, Dodge 4D+1, Rifle 4D+2, Throwing 3D+2\line {\b Wit: 1D+2}\line {\b Charm: 2D+2}\line {\b Perks & Comps:} None\line {\b Static:} Dodge 13, Block 16, Parry 15, Soak 15\line {\b Gear:} BFG (\u8220"I call 'er Betty. She's the only lady I trust.\u8221"), rifle, knife\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 Outlaw Preacher\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i The Good Book's vague on kneecaping.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Might: 3D} \u8212- Brawling 5D\line {\b Agility: 3D} \u8212- Dodge 5D, Rifle 4D\line {\b Wit: 1D+2} \u8212- History 4D\line {\b Charm: 2D+2} \u8212- Persuasion 4D\line {\b Static:} Dodge 15, Block 15, Parry 9, Soak 9\line {\b Perks & Comps:} Age, Skeletons in the closet.\line {\b Gear:} Holy Book\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 Noble\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i We're all running from something.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Might: 1D+2}\line {\b Agility: 3D} \u8212- Bow 4D, Dodge 4D\line {\b Wit: 3D+1}\line {\b Charm: 4D} \u8212- Diplomacy 5D, Persuasion 5D, Seduce 6D\line {\b Static:} Dodge 12, Block 5, Parry 9, Soak 5\line {\b Perks & Comps:} Attractive\line {\b Gear:} Fancy clothes, jewelry, bow.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 Psychic\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Lost my happy thought, can I have yours?}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Might: 2D}\line {\b Agility: 3D+2} \u8212- Athletics 4D+2, Dodge 5D+2\line {\b Wit: 3D+1}\line {\b Charm: 4D}\line {\b Static:} Dodge 17, Block 6, Parry 6, Soak 6\line {\b Perks & Comps:} ESP, Crazy\line {\b Gear:}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Rust Moon of Castia\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 They say the moon turned red when the Radiant Queen was born. Sages across the land studied the portent's meaning, but the skalds of Kauleshan knew that destiny was on their side. As she grew she united the northern tribes into a mighty force. Still this did not sate her thirst for power. She turned her covetous eye to the ancient throne of Castia. The war was harsh and swift. In the end only the four Elons stood against her horde but even they could not hold out in the face of her magic. In plundering our libraries she uncovered the Prophecy of the Marks of Radiance. Now she is obsessed with hunting our daughters. Her ambition is now twisted with her lust for eternal life. Now that we have learned to hide the vessel children things have gotten worse for the people. Rumors claim she has begun to grow old, she has grown desperate. \u8212- Mardegant the Wise, Secret Sage of Etain.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Castia was once a proud kingdom, its boundaries stretching from the Northern Forest south to the farmlands surrounding Lake Tarsis and east to the Teerna Sea. Legends claim that for centuries it was ruled by a line of wise kings who sought only safety for their subjects and peace with their neighbors. Bards still sing of this golden age, reminding all of what life was like in a land of joy deep in their memories. Because memories seldom whisper of anything other than beauty when waking eyes see only the mark of evil upon the land.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Dark times fell across the land when the moon turned red. Each night when the Rusting Eye passed over, strife would spread by leagues. Sydra and Nehar began to bite at the borders while the Syndics of Westron encroached on the forest. When raiders of Kauleshan invaded, none saw the true threat offered by the ill-organized barbarians. Only after the Scarlet Horde stood at the gates of Devmora did the king see the fate awaiting him. It took only three more summers for the once proud kingdom to fall. During the plundering of Etain the new royal's sages unearthed the Prophecy of the Marks of Radiance. Few speak of it openly but all well travelled folk now know how it reads,\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi0 \u8220"{\i Into each generation there will be born 13 daughters, one for each moon that passes over the sky. They share a common mark, a common spirit. From each the Radiant Light may burn, into each the Radiant Light may flow. May this Immortal Dynast guide us wisely, for guide us she will as long her line remains unbroken.}\u8221"\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Devmora:} once a prosperous trade city, the Scarlet Horde seized it for their dark mistress. The Radiant Queen claimed the town as her own. In the hundred years since she claimed the throne, the Radiant Queen has transformed the city into a mighty, many tiered and sectioned, fortress. The various city quarters all divided into compact wards. Great walls and loyal fanatics ensure their queen is safe from the outside world she chooses to rule so harshly.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Kauleshan:} the name of both the greatest northern city and the barbarian lands surrounding it. It is a brooding, cold land filled with harsh myths, dark cults, and berserker warriors. Not all of the northern clans joined the Radiant Queen's cause. Those who resisted were cursed or publicly put to death. Still some clans chose exile or retreat into more remote places instead of surrendering their freedom for her promises of glory.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Etain:} Once the capital of Castia, it still bears the scars of the savage plundering inflicted upon it. Here the Radiant Queen struck hardest of all cities that still have life in them. After a hundred years many citizens of Etain still look hollow, carrying a broken spirit for the horrors they are always reminded of.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Engalt:} The largest Hannedyn population near the Castian Realms, it is their common city ruled by a council of elders and a High Judge chosen from among the council to barter treaties with the larger lands of humans. The larger folk seldom take the smaller ones seriously, and even in their own towns and villages the phrase \u8220"Out of the way Speck!\u8221" can easily be heard. Few humans give the smaller race's great city much thought, but within its stunted rooms and narrow alleys many secrets still linger.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Tarsis Elon:} The last of the four fortresses to fall, it suffered the worst of the four curses. All who once lived there are now encased in translucent stone, alive but entombed. For each year that passes in the outside world, these poor souls age a single day. If any are chiseled free time comes rushing upon them bringing immediate death by old age. Still, more than a curse was left to watch Tarsis. Monsters, minions, and shadows without name haunt this doomed sanctuary. Rumors abound about what is still kept here. Some claim a great vault filled with gold, others speak of lost magics. Even if only a cache of ancient weapons, it would be a great fortune to those foolhardy enough to try and claim them.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Character Creation Guidelines\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 Skill List\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Might:} Axe/Mace, Brawling, Knife, Lift, Smithing, Stamina, Pole Arm, Sword\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Agility:} Athletics, Bow, Dodge, Pickpocket, Stealth, Throwing\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wit:} Crafts, Lore, Magic, Medicine, Pick Locks, Search, Tracking\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Charm:} Command, Diplomacy, Persuasion, Riding, Seduce, Streetwise\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 New Perks\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Brownie (4):} A small race standing only 12 to 15 inches tall. They normally live apart from humans, preferring the deep woodlands and hills. Only rarely do they meddle in the affairs of men. Brownies naturally speak with animals and birds while their tiny size gives them a bonus to {\i Stealth} (+2D) and {\i Dodge} (+2D) when fighting creatures man-sized or bigger. Unfortunately it also hinders them with the Tiny complication. The Brownie's maximum Might is limited to 3D while Agility may be up to 5D.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Hannedyn (2):} A short race standing half the size of men, they live in Engelt and the surrounding region. Humans tend to call them by their slang name Halfling or the popular insult Speck. While not technically subjects of the Castian throne they do pay tribute in exchange for continued peace.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Their small stature grants a bonus to {\i Stealth} (+1D) and {\i Dodge} (+1D) when fighting creatures man-sized or larger. All Hannedyn must take the Small complication while their Might is limited to 3D+1.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 New Complications\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Small:} This is a Racial Complication. Player Characters gain this only by the associated racial perk. Small characters receive a \u8722 ?5 penalty on all Might skill checks, Might based damage rolls, Block, and Parry. This penalty doesn't apply to {\i Stamina}, healing, and resisting damage. This penalty doesn't apply when fighting a Small or Tiny creature. Earn 1 bonus CP each session.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Tiny:} This is a Racial Complication. Player Characters gain this only by the associated racial perk. Tiny characters receive a \u8722 ?10 penalty on all Might skill checks, Might based damage rolls, Block, and Parry. This penalty doesn't apply to {\i Stamina}, healing, and resisting damage. This penalty doesn't apply when fighting another Tiny creature. Earn 1 bonus CP each session.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Vessel:} Available only to female characters. You were born with the Mark of Radiance. The Radiant Queen will hunt you all your days. Earn 1 bonus CP per session when you face her minions.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 Gear for Brownies and Hanedyn\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Any item can be made for tiny or small characters. The statistics are the same as their normal sized counterparts. Simply apply the Tiny or Small penalty as appropriate. Characters that try to use items too big for their size suffer double normal penalties.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Advice for the GM\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Rust Moon of Castia is classic fantasy adventure; a world of heroes and adventurers fighting for fortune and glory under the dangerous gaze of an evil overlord and bickering nations. They can be heroes, mercenaries for hire, or free wheeling adventurers just trying to find the next lost treasure horde. It is always best to work with players when deciding on what kind of fantasy campaign to run because tastes can vary wildly.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 Adventure Seeds\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b The Golden Key:} The player characters have found the key to the Vault of Lorna Fields. Legends tell of a hidden treasure horde to the east of Lorna Elon. When the key is held at the Crossroads under the light of the full moon the entrance will be revealed. Some legends speak of great wealth; others though make it less glamorous. Whispering of dark monsters held fast until the ancient line of kings would offer mercy and freedom if the beasts accepted a geas. Those still held refused such a punishment.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Down the Fairie Ring:} While travelling through the deep forest the player characters stumble into a Fairie Ring. These magical doorways are normally closed, but sadly this fairie keep has fallen under a curse and now they seek to bring others into their madness. The players must find their way out or break the curse before madness captures them as well.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Character Templates\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 Mad Mercenary\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Your leg? I would love to break it.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Might: 3D+2} \u8212- Athletics 4D+1, Brawling 4D+2, Sword 5D+2\line {\b Agility: 3D+1} \u8212- Dodge 5D+1, Riding 4D\line {\b Wit: 2D}\line {\b Charm: 3D}\line {\b Static:} Dodge 16, Block 14, Parry 17, Soak 11(17)\line {\b Perks & Comps:} None\line {\b Gear:} Chain mail (+6), horse, and long sword.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 Hannedyn Apprentice\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i My finger is more powerful than you know.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Might: 2D}\line {\b Agility: 3D} \u8212- Dodge 4D\line {\b Wit: 4D} \u8212- Magic 5D\line {\b Charm: 3D}\line {\b Static:} Dodge 12 (15), Block 6, Parry 6, Soak 6\line {\b Perks & Comps:} Hannedyn, Small, Sorcerer\line {\b Spells:} Choose 2 spells.\line {\b Gear:} Spell book and walking stick.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 Warrior Maiden\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Did my beauty or my axe strike you helpless?}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Might: 3D} \u8212- Axe/Mace 5D\line {\b Agility: 3D+2} \u8212- Dodge 5D+2\line {\b Wit: 2D} \u8212- Lore 3D\line {\b Charm: 3D+1} \u8212- Command 4D+1\line {\b Static:} Dodge 17, Block 9, Parry 15, Soak 9(21)\line {\b Perks & Comps:} Attractive, Vessel.\line {\b Gear:} Axe, chain mail (+6), shield (+4).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 Brownie Scout\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i This way! No\u8230 ? That way!}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Might: 2D}\line {\b Agility: 5D} \u8212- Bow 6D\line {\b Wit: 2D+1} \u8212- Tracking 4D+1\line {\b Charm: 2D+2}\line {\b Static:} Dodge 15 (21), Block 6, Parry 6, Soak 6\line {\b Perks & Comps:} Brownie, Tiny\line {\b Gear:} Brownie bow and ugly hat.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Bestiary\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 Arnax\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Leviathan of terror.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Potency: *****, Scale: +4D\line Might: 3D+1, Agility: 2D+2, Wit: 1D+2, Charm: 2D\line Skills: Brawling 6D, Breath Attack 6D Attacks: Bite (character scale, 7D)\line Breath Fire (5D, range 30 ft)\line Perks: Two Heads (makes 2 bites with no penalty)\line Static: Dodge 10, Block 19, Parry 16, Soak 16\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 Fairie\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Tinkling lights in the forest.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Potency: *, Scale: 0D\line Might: 1D+1, Agility: 5D+2, Wit: 2D, Charm: 3D\line Skills: Bow 6D+2, Dodge 8D+2, Stealth 8D+2\line Perks: ESP, Faint Glow (like a candle), Fly (60 ft/round), Mute, Tiny\line Static: Dodge 26, Block 4, Parry 4, Soak 4\line Gear: Fairie Bow, Fairie Dust\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 Troll Ape\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Smells worse than it looks.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Potency: ***, Scale: 0D\line Might: 5D+1, Agility: 3D+1 Wit: 1D+1, Charm: 1D\line Skills: Athletics 4D+1, Brawling 6D+1, Tracking 4D+1\line Perks: Regeneration, Scale any Surface\line Static: Dodge 10, Block 19, Parry 16, Soak 16\line Gear: None\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Imperium in Revolt\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 It is a dark time across the galaxy. Forces of the Grand Imperium have crushed the last vestiges of the once great Galactic Commonwealth. As tyranny spreads a few brave and desperate souls have dared to stand against the Sovereign's power. Rebels attempting to show the galaxy that freedom can be claimed if people are willing to stand up for what they believe in. The future is uncertain, but it will be forged by the spirit of heroes.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Player characters take the role of rebels, smugglers, knights, and others who stand against the Imperium. They are fighting for freedom; even if only their own.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 For 5,000 years the Galactic Commonwealth grew, stretching across the galaxy. Starting from the Founding Systems who mastered the secrets of hyperspace travel, they explored and expanded bringing thousands of races together under a common banner of prosperity. What felt like an eternity of good fortune bred its own peculiar evil. At first none noticed the corruption taking seed in the honored halls of galactic power.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Factions formed in the Senate, each coveting what others had amassed. Many senators viewed the systems they represented more as personal fiefdoms than states within the galactic body. Bickering replaced diplomacy. Trade blockades and strikes were common threats. The Senate was paralyzed. Systems starved as trade stagnated denying them goods they needed for survival.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The Galactic Navy, reduced in strength after so long a peace, was ordered to act as a barrier between individual system Militia Fleets but the military power was not up to the task. Skirmishes erupted between factions. The final blow came when the President of the Senate was murdered in the Grand Hall by rivals who feared his measured words.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 It was the Taurani senator who took center stage in the ensuing madness. Gathering the still loyal factions of the Commonwealth together, convincing them to merge individual Militia Fleets with the Galactic Navy. Factories producing critical goods were seized by the government to save dying worlds. Blockades were shattered and trade forcefully reestablished. Media was silenced to protect galactic security as order was restored.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 In only a dozen years the senator concentrated enough power to declare himself Sovereign. At his fiery self-coronation the new dictator promised a new golden age in a Grand Imperium. Yet not all hope was lost.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Character Creation Guidelines\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Characters may purchase the Sorcerer perk. The Star Paladins section explains how magic is treated in the game universe and the complications related to selecting it.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 Skill List\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Might:} Athletics, Brawling, Lift, Melee, Plasma Sword, Stamina, Swimming\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Agility:} BFG, Dodge, Drive, Pilot, Pistol, Rifle, Stealth, Throwing\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Wit:} Computers/Androids, Cultures, Demolitions, Gunnery, Languages, History, Magic, Medicine, Navigation, Repair, Science, Search, Security, Star Systems, Tracking\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Charm:} Command, Courage, Diplomacy, Gambling, Seduce, Streetwise\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 New Perks\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Alien Races (varies):} Sample aliens provided include Avari, Kaishee, and Telmek but GMs are encouraged to create additional alien races to further flesh out the many races found within the Imperium. Just be reasonable and cautious when determining how much a race should cost (if anything) as a perk.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Avari (1):} Natives of Varos, the Avari stand only 5 to 5\u189 ? feet and have an oddly uniform appearance. Their hair is always white and their complexion is a dusk-toned pale gray. Avari have the ability to compartmentalize their mind. If using only Wit skills, they can take two actions with no multi-action penalty; but their Might is limited to 3D.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Cyborg (2):} A significant portion of your body has been replaced with artificial components. You require half the sustenance others need and can override electronic pain receptors. You suffer 1D less wound penalties than others when injured to Wounded or worse. However the TN of all healing rolls is increased by +5.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Kaishee (1):} Indigenous to the Kalavel system. Kaishee are a large hairless people. They stand a full foot taller than the average human. Kaishee skin tones range from a deep golden bronze to a faint pale orange while their eyes are a single solid color with black and deep green being most common. Kaishee have an intuitive understanding of spatial relationships that gives them a +2 bonus on {\i Navigation}, {\i Search} and {\i Tracking}. Their eyes also provide them with natural light amplification and filtering reducing all penalties for darkness by half. Kaishee have a maximum Might of 5D but their maximum Wit is 3D and their maximum Agility is 3D+1.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Telmek (2):} Natives of Telmera, they have a build similar to humans but with decidedly reptilian features. Their skin is a tough serpent hide and their hair is both thick and slick. Primarily carnivores, their teeth are composed mainly of incisors which unsettles many humans when they choose to smile. Telmek metabolic and mental cycles allow them to function with only four to five hours sleep per night. Because of their tough skin Telmek receive a +2 armor bonus.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 New Complications\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Hunted:} All rebels are sought by the Imperium, but some are more sought after than others. This is most often found among the Star Paladins and those who studied their ways. The Imperium has a standing bounty of 10,000 credits for information leading to the capture of any Star Paladin. Some paladins have additional bounties attached to them. Hunted characters receive an additional CP when this becomes an active issue in the adventure.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Large Debt:} You owe someone a lot. Maybe one of your deals went bad, maybe you borrowed to buy that ship you always wanted. No matter how it came about you are in debt. Most of your spare money is going to go to pay this off and whoever you owe will likely call on you from time to time to perform extra favors for them as a \u8220"friendly\u8221" form of interest. Gain 1 CP for any adventure where your debtor gets involved in your business.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Total Pacifist:} This complication is frequently hard programmed into civilian androids to keep them from turning on their masters.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Order of the Star Paladins\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Since the first days of the Commonwealth the Star Paladins acted as defenders of the peace; traveling across the galaxy offering aid to any in need. Possessing mystical powers that seemingly defy science, they were viewed with both reverence and a small amount of fear. With the power at their command temptation to wickedness was always a danger. To combat this, the masters who founded the order developed a code all paladins must abide by. Over time it was distilled down to four simple statements:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi0 Justice tempered by mercy.\line Passion tempered by virtue.\line Honor tempered by humility.\line Knowledge tempered by Wisdom.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Because Rogue Paladins were always a danger, the order formed a special faction called the Shadow Guard. They were charged with watching for signs of paladins that might fall to evil and either counsel them back to the path of honor or bring them to the High Council for judgment.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A young master was given leadership of the Shadow Guard when the Sovereign was rising to power. Unknown to the High Council, this master had sworn allegiance to the Sovereign. His position let him keep the Star Paladins blind to the Sovereign's ultimate goal until it was too late. On Coronation Day, the ancient order was outlawed. The Shadow Guard became the Inquisition and now hunt for their former brothers in arms.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Using Magic in the Imperium\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 In the universe of the Imperium there is a supernatural force at work. Characters with the perk Sorcerer can access this power. Not all spells listed in the magic section are appropriate though. By selecting the spells allowed the GM\u8217's helps reinforce the way magic works in their universe. It is suggested that Star Paladins select from the following: {\i Beast Tongue}, {\i Bless}, {\i Charm}, {\i Curse}, {\i Dark Vision}, {\i Death Spell}, {\i Dispel Magic}, {\i Divination}, {\i ESP}, {\i Levitate} (see Fly), {\i Hasten}, {\i Illusions}, {\i Paralysis}, {\i Resist Elements}, {\i See Magic Aura}, {\i Slumber}, {\i Still Mind}, and {\i Telekinesis}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Additional powers can also be created to help showcase the unique powers of the Star Paladins. For Example:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 Sense Danger\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 TN: 19, Duration: Concentration, Range: Self, Resisted: None\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The caster attunes himself to any threats within 60 feet. This gives a +2D bonus to dodge, parry and block. The Paladin may also use his plasma sword to parry ranged attacks.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 The Galaxy\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The Imperium stretches from the Founding Systems to the most distant arms of the galaxy. Thousands of inhabited worlds and countless more colonies fall under its sphere of authority. Still space is vast and the number of planets with life on them is seemingly endless. New worlds in remote locations are still found. Sometimes Rebel Command is able to work out treaties and use them as secret bases. Other times Imperium scouts discover the world and log it in detail for later inclusion and harvesting.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Because of the Imperium's strength, few systems dare openly fly the Rebel banner. Still, some planets have chosen to take that desperate stand even in the face of harsh marshal law. What follows are a few of the systems that have taken a stand in the civil war.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Ajada:} One of the old Commonwealth's Founding Systems. They suffered greatly during the collapse of the old government and greatly benefited from the Sovereign's ascension. This makes them extremely loyal. Many of the finest officers in the Galactic Navy hail from Ajada. Its system is also the location of the largest Imperium shipyards.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Kalavel:} Homeworld of the Kaishee, it was a system full of great natural resources, it was also the first to rebel against the Imperium. The Navy struck at them hard and fast. Many of the natives were forced into slavery as punishment for rebellion and the once lush world is now a blasted shell of its former self.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Petrion:} This system holds the seat of galactic power. Once home to the Grand Hall of the Senate, it now acts as host to the Sovereign's throne. A planet of bureaucrats and royal sycophants, it's extremely dangerous to be a rebel sympathizer here.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Tauran:} For millennia the noble houses of this Founding System were little more than figureheads. How the Sovereign converted an ancient honorific into a powerbase is unknown, but many Taurani hold their heads in shame at the terror they let loose from their world in a moment of weakness. Many in the Rebel Command claim Taurani heritage.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 Hyperdrive Technology\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Uniting the Founding Systems and creating galactic trade, the hyperdrive (HD) works by passing through a dimension called hyperspace. This allows cosmic distances to be travelled in a matter of days instead of a dozen millennia, but while in hyperspace ships can't send or receive any transmissions or sensor data.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 All ships built with HD's are given a rating. This acts as a multiplier applied to their travel time. It is against Imperium Law for any civilian craft to be equipped with a drive rated better than \u215 ?2.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 Sub-Light Travel Times\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Travel within a solar system is normally a fairly simple affair. Ships lock their sensors onto a series of planetary beacons and follow them to the desired destination. Travel time between inner worlds is only 1d6 hours, but when attempting to cross the outer planets it takes 2d6 hours.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Ships can choose to hide their approach by not using the beacons, network but this requires a Moderate {\i Navigation} roll. On a failure the ship goes off course doubling the travel time. Pilots can also attempt to speed up the travel time by rolling their {\i Pilot} skill adding the Move dice of the ship. If the pilot rolls a Moderate level of success the travel time is reduced 10%. A Difficult roll reduces travel time by 20%, a Very Difficult roll reduces travel time by 30% and a Heroic roll reduces the time by 50%.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 Travel Time Between Systems\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The times listed below are the average amount of time needed to travel directly between two systems. To make the trip successfully a Moderate {\i Navigation} roll is required. Because of possible obstacles between two systems it is often faster to travel indirectly. By flying to an intermediary spaceport ships can save time.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If the pilot plots their own coordinates they can attempt to reduce the time needed and avoid Imperium entanglements often found on the more common trade routes. If the pilot makes a Difficult {\i Navigation} roll the time needed is reduced 10%, a Very Difficult roll reduces the time by 25%, and a Heroic roll reduces the time by 50%. These \u8220"shortcuts\u8221" take advantage of the celestial movement and cannot be reused. If the roll is a failure the jump fails causing one wound level of damage to the ship, and increases the travel time required by 1d6 days if the normal time needed is over one day or 1d6 hours if less than a day.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx720\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1440\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2160\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2880\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3600\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5040\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5760\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6480\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx7200\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx7920\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \u160 ?\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Chahnae}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Drougayn}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Helmar}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Kalavel}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Lesdin}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Peles}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Petrion}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Seljan}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Tauran}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Telmera}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Varos}\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx720\cellx1440\cellx2160\cellx2880\cellx3600\cellx4320\cellx5040\cellx5760\cellx6480\cellx7200\cellx7920\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Ajada}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 11h\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 19d 11h\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 6d 3h\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 5d 16h\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2d 1h\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4d 23h\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3h\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 12d 16h\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 9h\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1d 3h\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 14h\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx720\cellx1440\cellx2160\cellx2880\cellx3600\cellx4320\cellx5040\cellx5760\cellx6480\cellx7200\cellx7920\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Chahnae}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \u8212-\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 12d 16h\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 8d 12h\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4d 19h\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2d 17h\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 6d 20h\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 22h\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 7d 22h\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 12h\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 8h\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 16h\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx720\cellx1440\cellx2160\cellx2880\cellx3600\cellx4320\cellx5040\cellx5760\cellx6480\cellx7200\cellx7920\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Drougayn}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \u8212-\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \u8212-\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 5d 17h\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4d 6h\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 12d 6h\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2d 19h\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 11d 2h\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 6d 21h\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 9d 10h\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 11d 11h\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 7d 13h\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx720\cellx1440\cellx2160\cellx2880\cellx3600\cellx4320\cellx5040\cellx5760\cellx6480\cellx7200\cellx7920\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Helmar}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \u8212-\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \u8212-\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \u8212-\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 9d 20h\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3d 18h\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 5d 6h\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 9d 3h\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3d 22h\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 7d 2h\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 5d 21h\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 10d 15h\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx720\cellx1440\cellx2160\cellx2880\cellx3600\cellx4320\cellx5040\cellx5760\cellx6480\cellx7200\cellx7920\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Kalavel}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \u8212-\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \u8212-\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \u8212-\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \u8212-\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 7d 4h\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 9d 6h\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 10d 7h\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3d 5h\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 12d 15h\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 7d 14h\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 10d 19h\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx720\cellx1440\cellx2160\cellx2880\cellx3600\cellx4320\cellx5040\cellx5760\cellx6480\cellx7200\cellx7920\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Lesdin}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \u8212-\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \u8212-\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \u8212-\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \u8212-\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \u8212-\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 9d 11h\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 11d 16h\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1d 23h\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 10d 2h\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 6d 8h\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 7d 11h\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx720\cellx1440\cellx2160\cellx2880\cellx3600\cellx4320\cellx5040\cellx5760\cellx6480\cellx7200\cellx7920\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Peles}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \u8212-\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \u8212-\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \u8212-\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \u8212-\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \u8212-\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \u8212-\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 9d 19h\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2d 14h\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3d 6h\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 10d 20h\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4d 6h\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx720\cellx1440\cellx2160\cellx2880\cellx3600\cellx4320\cellx5040\cellx5760\cellx6480\cellx7200\cellx7920\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Petrion}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \u8212-\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \u8212-\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \u8212-\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \u8212-\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \u8212-\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \u8212-\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \u8212-\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 4d 11h\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 7d 18h\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3d 9h\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 7h\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx720\cellx1440\cellx2160\cellx2880\cellx3600\cellx4320\cellx5040\cellx5760\cellx6480\cellx7200\cellx7920\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Seljan}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \u8212-\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \u8212-\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \u8212-\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \u8212-\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \u8212-\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \u8212-\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \u8212-\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \u8212-\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 6d 1h\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 9d 5h\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 13h\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx720\cellx1440\cellx2160\cellx2880\cellx3600\cellx4320\cellx5040\cellx5760\cellx6480\cellx7200\cellx7920\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Tauran}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \u8212-\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \u8212-\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \u8212-\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \u8212-\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \u8212-\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \u8212-\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \u8212-\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \u8212-\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \u8212-\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 20h\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 5h\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx720\cellx1440\cellx2160\cellx2880\cellx3600\cellx4320\cellx5040\cellx5760\cellx6480\cellx7200\cellx7920\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Telmera}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \u8212-\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \u8212-\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \u8212-\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \u8212-\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \u8212-\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \u8212-\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \u8212-\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \u8212-\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \u8212-\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 \u8212-\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 9h\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i d = Days, h = Hours}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 Money and Gear\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The coin of the galaxy is called the Imperial Credit. Several local systems and small independent worlds also issue their own currency, but they are seldom worth anything beyond the issuing region's border.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The Imperium tracks large (in excess of 20,000) credit transfers between individuals, but while the law dictates strict enforcement many bankers and civil servants have a streak of laziness and corruption. This works to the advantage of both organized crime, independent grifters, smugglers, and stalwart rebels.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Imperium law also forbids civilians from owning unregistered weapons, assault rifles, and body armor. Papers are issued locally. Fortunately forgeries are easy to come by and the data cores holding the information easily hacked.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 It is recommended that the GM let the players have a spaceship to use in their travels. This ship could be borrowed from the Rebel Command or one of the players might be in debt to a loan shark for the hefty cost of a heavily customized vessel. Civilian ships are not allowed armaments, so any weapons placed on a ship will need either forged documents granting permission or be somehow concealable from casual scanning. GMs should use the plot device that best serves the needs of their individual games.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Personal weapons include a variety of energy weapons ranging from holdout lasers to heavy disrupter pistols. Those going into heavy combat also try to get their hands on laser rifles and blaster carbines. Body armor ranges from reinforced clothing to bulky fully body armor favored by mercenaries.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Advice for the GM\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Imperium in Revolt is classic space opera. Laser weapons, energy shields, thousands of alien races, and a universe where a few brave souls can change the fates of entire worlds. It is larger than life featuring daring deeds that are breathtaking in scope. The most civilized planets are covered in mega-cities while remote worlds are home to ancient trees standing a half mile tall. Desert worlds and ocean planets can be found along with alien landscapes of liquid metal seas and fiery vistas.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Adventures often take place on a single world but they need not stay confined to only one. By incorporating world spanning adventures you can help reinforce how interconnected the Imperium is. Part of what gave the Sovereign his opportunity was the stories of worlds that starved to death because they depended on galactic trade for basic necessities. Playing on both the careful deceptions of imperial propaganda and the discovering ruins of dead worlds can heighten the desperation felt across the galaxy as it struggles for freedom.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 As for the Imperium itself, it works hard to put on a friendly protective face for the public but in truth its officers are frequently cruel, ambitious men who cannot be trusted. Despite this stereotype of casual evil, the major imperial characters can still be complex people with likes, loves, and secrets of their own. It can be fun to play to the maniacal villains trying to destroy the PC's but if you give that recurring villain a bit of depth and history there can be more potential to draw on later. These complex recurring villains can add depth to your game, but if the players are clever enough to take one down you should let them succeed.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 Adventure Seeds\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b The Salvage Yard:} A damaged rebel frigate took refuge in an abandoned asteroid mining operation. The ship's life support failed leaving only a drifting hulk. Imperium forces are now looking for the ship and the secret transmissions it holds. The players need to locate and retrieve the ship's computer core before the Imperium does.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Unknown to both sides, hidden among the drifting ships and abandoned equipment are the aliens that destroyed the mining operation and they are getting hungry again.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Our New Hope:} Rebel Command has discovered that a master from the Order of Star Paladins has been living in seclusion on a remote world, hidden from the Inquisition. The rebels also realize that if they have learned of his whereabouts, the Inquisition might have too. Someone needs to try and get word to the once great knight about the danger he is in.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The GM may have the paladin be alive, fallen into wickedness, or already dead leaving only a few scraps of cryptic knowledge and a journal or maybe someone claiming to be his apprentice.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Character Templates\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 Minor Paladin\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Focus, honor, humility.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Might: 3D} \u8212- Plasma Sword 4D\line {\b Agility: 3D} \u8212- Dodge 4D\line {\b Wit: 4D} \u8212- Magic 6D\line {\b Charm: 2D}\line {\b Static:} Dodge 12, Block 9, Parry 12, Soak 9\line {\b Perks & Comps:} Sorcerer, Hunted\line {\b Spells:} Charm, ESP, Sense Danger\line {\b Gear:} Plasma Sword\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 Scruffy Smuggler\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i I can get ya there, no questions asked.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Might: 3D} \u8212- Brawling 4D\line {\b Agility: 3D+2} \u8212- Dodge 5D, Pilot 4D+2, Pistol 5D\line {\b Wit: 2D+1} \u8212- Navigation 3D+1\line {\b Charm: 3D} \u8212- Streetwise 4D+1\line {\b Static:} Dodge 15, Block 12, Parry 9, Soak 9\line {\b Perks & Comp:} Large Debt\line {\b Gear:} Heavy Blaster, Light Transport\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 Exiled Royal\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Do you KNOW who I am?}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Might: 2D+1} \u8212- Melee 3D\line {\b Agility: 3D+2} \u8212- Dodge 5D, Pistol 3D,\line {\b Wit: 3D+1} \u8212- History 4D\line {\b Charm: 3D+1} \u8212- Command 5D+1, Diplomacy 4D+2\line {\b Static:} Dodge 15, Block 7, Parry 9, Soak 7\line {\b Perks:} Favors\line {\b Gear:} hold-out pistol, wardrobe.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 Kaishee Pilot\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i You don't want to make me mad.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Might: 4D+2}\line {\b Agility: 3D+1} \u8212- Dodge 4D+1, Pilot 5D+1\line {\b Wit: 2D} \u8212- Navigation 3D+2\line {\b Charm: 2D} \u8212- Streetwise 4D\line {\b Static:} Dodge 13, Block 14, Parry 14, Soak 14\line {\b Perks:} Kaishee (1)\line {\b Gear:} Plasma bolter, bandoliers.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 Android Companion\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i As you command.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Might: 2D}\line {\b Agility: 3D} \u8212- Dodge 4D\line {\b Wit: 5D} \u8212- Languages 6D, Repair 6D\line {\b Charm: 2D}\line {\b Static:} Dodge 12, Block 6, Parry 6, Soak 6\line {\b Perks & Comps:} Robot, Total Pacifist\line {\b Gear:} Systems link, toolkit.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 Failed Apprentice\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Honor? It 'n 2 creds buys a drink.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Might: 2D+2} \u8212- Plasma Sword 4D\line {\b Agility: 3D+1} \u8212- Dodge 4D, Stealth 3D+2\line {\b Wit: 3D+2} \u8212- Magic 4D+2\line {\b Charm: 2D+1} \u8212- Courage 3D\line {\b Static:} Dodge 12, Block 8, Parry 12, Soak 8\line {\b Perks & Comps:} Sorcerer, Hunted\line {\b Gear:} Plasma sword, whiskey.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 Ex-Imperium Officer\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i I swore to defend. Not enslave.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Might: 3D} \u8212- Athletics 3D+2\line {\b Agility: 3D} \u8212- Dodge 4D, Pistol 4D\line {\b Wit: 3D} \u8212- Computer 4D, Navigation 4D\line {\b Charm: 3D} \u8212- Command 5D, Courage 3D+1\line {\b Static:} Dodge 12, Block 9, Parry 9, Soak 9\line {\b Gear:} Laser Pistol. Naval Uniform.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 High Inquisitor\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i You will submit.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Might: 3D} \u8212- Brawling 4D+2, Plasma Sword 8D, Stamina 6D\line {\b Agility: 2D+2} \u8212- Dodge 6D+2, Pistol 5D, Stealth 5D+1\line {\b Wit: 4D} \u8212- Computer 5D, History 6D+1, Language 6D, Magic 9D+2, Tracking 7D\line {\b Charm: 2D+1} \u8212- Command 7D+1, Courage 6D+2, Diplomacy 6D\line {\b Static:} Dodge 20, Block 14, Parry 24, Soak 9(18)\line {\b Perks:} Cyborg, Favors, Sorcerer\line {\b Gear:} Custom body armor (+9), plasma sword, pistol\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 Centurion\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i For the Imperium!}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Might: 3D+1} \u8212- Brawling 4D+1, Stamina 4D\line {\b Agility: 2D+2} \u8212- Dodge 3D+2, Pistol 4D, Rifle 4D+1\line {\b Wit: 2D} \u8212- Search 3D\line {\b Charm: 2D} \u8212- Command 2D+1\line **Static: Dodge 11, Block 13, Parry 10, Soak 10(16)\line {\b Gear:} Body Armor (+6), Rifle\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 Bounty Hunter\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Everyone has a price on them.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Might: 3D+1} \u8212- Brawling 4D, Melee 4D\line {\b Agility: 3D+1} \u8212- Dodge 4D, Pistol 4D, Rifle 4D\line {\b Wit: 3D} \u8212- Computer 4D, Search 4D, Tracking 4D\line {\b Charm: 2D+1} \u8212- Diplomacy 3D\line {\b Static:} Dodge 12, Block 12, Parry 12, Soak 10(13)\line {\b Gear:} Body armor (+6), rifle, taser manacles, tracking beacons\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 Telmek Gangster\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Of course I can help you out.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Might: 3D} \u8212- Brawling 4D+1, Melee 4D\line {\b Agility: 2D+1} \u8212- Dodge 4D+2, Pilot 3D+2, Pistol 5D\line {\b Wit: 3D} \u8212- Computer 5D, Languages 5D, Star Systems 6D, Search 4D\line {\b Charm: 3D+2} \u8212- Command 5D+1, Courage 5D, Diplomacy 6D, Seduce 4D+1, Streetwise 7D\line {\b Static:} Dodge 14, Block 13, Parry 12, Soak 9\line {\b Perks:} Favors, Telmek\line {\b Gear:} Pistol, pocket computer.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Vehicles\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The following are examples of the ships used in the galactic struggle. There are many more used by the various factions, both aligned and unaligned.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 Imperial Dreadnaught\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Galaxy Class Dreadnaught}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Cost:} $$$$$\line {\b Scale:} +12D\line {\b Skill:} Command\line {\b Body:} 6D\line {\b MNV:} 1D\line {\b Move:} 4D\line {\b Hyperdrive:} \u215 ?2\line {\b Crew:} 29,000\line {\b Psg:} 2,500\line {\b Cargo:} 50ktn\line {\b Troops:} 6,000 Centurions w/landing craft\line {\b Fighters:} 64 Talon-ImPC\line {\b Assault Bombers:} 16 Razor-ImAC\line {\b Shields:} 3D\line {\b Weapons:} 60 Quad-Laser Batteries (6D), 40 Ion Pulse Cannon Batteries (4D+1), 8 Tractor Beam Projectors (capture target), 24 Heavy Nova Torpedoes (8D), 120 AA Gun Batteries (4D, Fighter scale)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 Talon-ImPC\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Space Superiority Fighter}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Cost:} $$\line {\b Scale:} +6D\line {\b Skill:} Pilot\line {\b Body:} 2D\line {\b MNV:} 2D\line {\b Move:} 5D\line {\b Hyperdrive:} none\line {\b Crew:} 1\line {\b Psg:} 0\line {\b Cargo:} none\line {\b Shields:} none\line {\b Weapons:} Weapons: Laser Cannon (5D)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 Razor-ImaAC\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Heavy Bomber}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Cost:} $$$$\line {\b Scale:} +6D\line {\b Skill:} Pilot\line {\b Body:} 3D\line {\b MNV:} 1D\line {\b Move:} 3D+1\line {\b Hyperdrive:} none\line {\b Crew:} 2\line {\b Psg:} 2\line {\b Cargo:} none\line {\b Shields:} 1D\line {\b Weapons:} Laser Cannon (5D), 2 Nova Torpedo Tubes (9D), 2 EM Pulse Bombs (8D, if targets in area are Wounded all energized systems are disabled)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 Avari Frigate\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Retrofitted Rebel Ship of the Line}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Cost:} $$$$$\line {\b Scale:} +12D\line {\b Skill:} Command\line {\b Body:} 4D\line {\b MNV:} 1D\line {\b Move:} 3D+2\line {\b Hyperdrive:} \u215 ?1\line {\b Crew:} 4,750\line {\b Psg:} 400\line {\b Cargo:} 20ktn\line {\b Troops:} 1,000 marines w/ landing craft\line {\b Shields:} 2D\line {\b Weapons:} 24 Quad Laser Batteries (6D), 10 Ion Pulse Cannon Batteries (3D+2), 12 Heavy Nova Torpedo Tubes (8D), 60 AA Gun Batteries (4D, Fighter scale)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 The Starhawk\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Customized Taurani Light Freighter}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Cost:} $$$$\line {\b Scale:} +6D\line {\b Skill:} Pilot\line {\b Body:} 5D\line {\b MNV:} 1D\line {\b Move:} 4D\line {\b Hyperdrive:} \u215 ?\u189 ?\line {\b Crew:} 2\line {\b Psg:} 6\line {\b Cargo:} 100tn\line {\b Shields:} 2D\line {\b Weapons:} 1 Nova Torpedo Tube (9D), 2 Twin Barrel Laser Cannons (5D+1/ea), Ion Pulse Cannon (4D)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 Enigma Mk II\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Rebel Attack Fighter}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Cost:} $$$\line {\b Scale:} +6D\line {\b Skill:} Pilot\line {\b Body:} 4D\line {\b MNV:} 3D\line {\b Move:} 4D\line {\b Hyperdrive:} \u215 ?2\line {\b Crew:} 1\line {\b Psg:} 0\line {\b Cargo:} none\line {\b Shields:} 1D\line {\b Weapons:} Quad Laser Cannon (6D), 4 Micro-Pulse Missiles (8D+1)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 K-90\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i In-System Interceptor}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Cost:} $$\line {\b Scale:} +6D\line {\b Skill:} Pilot\line {\b Body:} 2D+1\line {\b MNV:} 3D\line {\b Move:} 5D\line {\b Hyperdrive:} none\line {\b Crew:} 1\line {\b Psg:} 0\line {\b Cargo:} none\line {\b Shields:} 1D\line {\b Weapons:} Twin Barrel Ion Cannon (4D+1), Laser Cannon (5D)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel0 \b \fs36 OPEN GAME LICENSE Version 1.0a\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The following text is the property of Wizards of the Coast, Inc. and is Copyright 2000 Wizards of the Coast, Inc (\u8220"Wizards\u8221"). All Rights Reserved.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 1. Definitions: (a) \u8221"Contributors\u8221" means the copyright and/or trademark owners who have contributed Open Game Content; (b) \u8220"Derivative Material\u8221" means copyrighted material including derivative works and translations (including into other computer languages), potation, modification, correction, addition, extension, upgrade, improvement, compilation, abridgment or other form in which an existing work may be recast, transformed or adapted; (c) \u8220"Distribute\u8221" means to reproduce, license, rent, lease, sell, broadcast, publicly display, transmit or otherwise distribute; (d) \u8220"Open Game Content\u8221" means the game mechanic and includes the methods, procedures, processes and routines to the extent such content does not embody the Product Identity and is an enhancement over the prior art and any additional content clearly identified as Open Game Content by the Contributor, and means any work covered by this License, including translations and derivative works under copyright law, but specifically excludes Product Identity. (e) \u8220"Product Identity\u8221" means product and product line names, logos and identifying marks including trade dress; artifacts; creatures characters; stories, storylines, plots, thematic elements, dialogue, incidents, language, artwork, symbols, designs, depictions, likenesses, formats, poses, concepts, themes and graphic, photographic and other visual or audio representations; names and descriptions of characters, spells, enchantments, personalities, teams, personas, likenesses and special abilities; places, locations, environments, creatures, equipment, magical or supernatural abilities or effects, logos, symbols, or graphic designs; and any other trademark or registered trademark clearly identified as Product identity by the owner of the Product Identity, and which specifically excludes the Open Game Content; (f) \u8220"Trademark\u8221" means the logos, names, mark, sign, motto, designs that are used by a Contributor to identify itself or its products or the associated products contributed to the Open Game License by the Contributor (g) \u8220"Use\u8221", \u8220"Used\u8221" or \u8220"Using\u8221" means to use, Distribute, copy, edit, format, modify, translate and otherwise create Derivative Material of Open Game Content. (h) \u8220"You\u8221" or \u8220"Your\u8221" means the licensee in terms of this agreement.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 2. The License: This License applies to any Open Game Content that contains a notice indicating that the Open Game Content may only be Used under and in terms of this License. You must affix such a notice to any Open Game Content that you Use. No terms may be added to or subtracted from this License except as described by the License itself. No other terms or conditions may be applied to any Open Game Content distributed using this License.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 3. Offer and Acceptance: By Using the Open Game Content You indicate Your acceptance of the terms of this License.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 4. Grant and Consideration: In consideration for agreeing to use this License, the Contributors grant You a perpetual, worldwide, royalty-free, non exclusive license with the exact terms of this License to Use, the Open Game Content.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 5. Representation of Authority to Contribute: If You are contributing original material as Open Game Content, You represent that Your Contributions are Your original creation and/or You have sufficient rights to grant the rights conveyed by this License.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 6. Notice of License Copyright: You must update the COPYRIGHT NOTICE portion of this License to include the exact text of the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any Open Game Content You are copying, modifying or distributing, and You must add the title, the copyright date, and the copyright holder's name to the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any original Open Game Content you Distribute.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 7. Use of Product Identity: You agree not to Use any Product Identity, including as an indication as to compatibility, except as expressly licensed in another, independent Agreement with the owner of each element of that Product Identity. You agree not to indicate compatibility or co-adaptability with any Trademark or Registered Trademark in conjunction with a work containing Open Game Content except as expressly licensed in another, independent Agreement with the owner of such Trademark or Registered Trademark. The use of any Product Identity in Open Game Content does not constitute a challenge to the ownership of that Product Identity. The owner of any Product Identity used in Open Game Content shall retain all rights, title and interest in and to that Product Identity.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 8. Identification: If you distribute Open Game Content You must clearly indicate which portions of the work that you are distributing are Open Game Content.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 9. Updating the License: Wizards or its designated Agents may publish updated versions of this License. You may use any authorized version of this License to copy, modify and distribute any Open Game Content originally distributed under any version of this License.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 10. Copy of this License: You MUST include a copy of this License with every copy of the Open Game Content You Distribute.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 11. Use of Contributor Credits: You may not market or advertise the Open Game Content using the name of any Contributor unless You have written permission from the Contributor to do so.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 12. Inability to Comply: If it is impossible for You to comply with any of the terms of this License with respect to some or all of the Open Game Content due to statute, judicial order, or governmental regulation then You may not Use any Open Game Material so affected.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 13. Termination: This License will terminate automatically if You fail to comply with all terms herein and fail to cure such breach within 30 days of becoming aware of the breach. All sublicenses shall survive the termination of this License.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 14. Reformation: If any provision of this License is held to be unenforceable, such provision shall be reformed only to the extent necessary to make it enforceable.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 15.\tx360\tab COPYRIGHT NOTICE\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Open Game License v 1.0 Copyright 2000, Wizards of the Coast, Inc.\line D6 Adventure (WEG51011), Copyright 2004, Purgatory Publishing Inc.\line West End Games, WEG, and D6 System are trademarks and properties of Purgatory Publishing Inc.\line Mini Six Bare Bones Edition, Copyright 2010, AntiPaladin Games.\line Mini Six, and APG are trademarks and properties of AntiPaladin Games.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 PRODUCT IDENTIFICATION:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Product Identity: The D6 System; the D6 trademarks, the D6 and related logos and any derivative trademarks not specified as Open Game Content are designated as Product Identity (PI) and are properties of Purgatory Publishing Inc. All rights reserved.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The Mini Six and the Mini Six Bare Bones Edition trademarks and related logos and any derivative trademarks are designated as Product Identity (PI) and are properties of AntiPaladin Games. All rights reserved.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Open Game Content: All game mechanics and material not covered under Product Identity (PI) above; OpenD6 trademark and OpenD6 logo.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 This is the end of the Open Game License.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If you would like to use the Mini Six trademark or logo beyond the scope of fair use, please visit {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.antipaladingames.com/p/license.html"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
antipaladingames.com
}}}
 for details.\par}
}
